Leroy Dzenga Features Writer &#8212; The world is increasingly moving towards digital spaces, where dynamic technological inventions have become an indelible necessity. In Zimbabwe, the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education has been leading the race in adapting to the modern way of conducting business.Their controversial e-Map application system is evidence of their enterprise and the thrust on information and communication technology has extended to the classroom.With the new curriculum beginning to take shape, it comes with a provision requiring children to take part in some of their learning areas using mobile phones and tablets.In an interview with our sister paper The Chronicle, Education Ministry spokesperson Patrick Zumbo announced the new development. With ICTs now being part of our education curriculum, it is true that pupils will be required to use the gadgets. It will depend on resource availability in schools as they should ensure that children have access to the gadgets, Zumbo said.The Ministry is well aware of the cost related to this ambitious idea and have not rule out parent involvement. Parents must chip in and help schools which are not well resourced to provide the gadgets. In fact, it is both the obligation of both the school and the parents in getting the required gadgets, Zumbo said.Mr Zumbo said the ministry understands the potential threat posed on grade by the introduction of the gadgets. Parents must also understand that these gadgets especially smart phones are will strictly be for learning not WhatsApp. We have enough capacity to monitor the gadgets and we will block some of these sites in our schools, he said.The gadget use is set to be introduced from ECD to A-Level, with differences being in the intensity of functionality.Parents have welcomed the modernisation with a pinch of pessimism.Mr Albert Zvareva a father of two daughters at a local boarding school resented the idea vehemently saying there was too much at stake. From a moral standpoint, I don t think that having phones in class will do students any good. They may get tempted through technology to engage in regrettable activities. There have been concerns on Satanism which has been infiltrating through WhatsApp and other websites. Without proper supervision, a child at school might want to experiment, Mr Zvareva said worried of the acquaintances children may attract for themselves.He urged the authorities to reconsider this move, saying the traditional way of teaching has lesser repercussions. When one is at school, they should read their books and focus on their work. There is plenty of time after school for these children to catch up. It is better to have children who finish school knowing little about mobile phones than to have children who fail to complete school, he said.Another parent, Mrs Memory Chafa said the introduction of phones at school may make it difficult for parents to monitor their children s usage of gadgets. Some families have strict rules on gadgets, but when schools make them compulsory, the children will have an excuse to spend the whole day playing with them, she said.Mrs Chafa also questioned the level to which students will be monitored after the introduction of technology. Honestly, I do not think it is a good idea. Modernisation is tempting but we may wreck our good education system in the process, Mrs Chafa said.She also quizzed the source of these gadgets, saying it would be an extra burden on the parents, should they be required to buy them for their children. With the state of the economy, I hope the Ministry will be providing the phones and tablets. Parents do not have a lot of money at their disposal, she added.Despite the disciplinary concerns harboured by the parents, pupils themselves have mixed reactions towards the impending development.Esnath Mutava, a Seke High 1 student said the introduction of mobile phones in the classroom is likely to benefit learners. Information is now a vital aspect of learning and the phones and tablets may assist in research to get a global perspective of concepts, she said.She added that academic resources are now available on the internet which will make life their lives easier. Sources can now be shared through mobile phones and devices which benefits those who may have been having challenges in buying books, said Mutava.Even the students themselves appreciate the challenges likely to emerge if this plan is set in motion. Mutava said there is no guarantee that some wayward students will not abuse the privilege through engaging in pornography and excessive social media.Samkheliso Chamboko, a triumphant pupil who emerged with 15 points from the recently released A-Level exams resented the thought.She said computer laboratories at schools are there to serve the same purpose intended to be filled by mobile gadgets. Today s generation is mostly comprised of with irresponsible teenagers and even adults who are easily disrupted with these gadgets, she said.She said instead, efforts should be made to curb the already prevalent excessive use of mobile devices by pupils. Many of these pupils are already addicts when it comes to phones and tablets. I do not see how having them at school would benefit them. I am sure most schools have computer laboratories which students can use for online research, she said.Experts also weighed in doubting the effectiveness monitoring mechanisms set to be employed.Educationalist and senior lecturer in the Department of Technical Education at University of Zimbabwe, Dr Peter Kwaira encouraged strict regulation if the idea goes through. Tablets and smart phones are tools for communication and accessing information. Like tools in any trade, there needs to be regulations for use, he said.Dr Kwaira added a high level of rationality is needed in implementing technology use in society and in class. Teachers are a very important in ensuring minimal harm during the use of technology in class, if they will not be hands on, things will go out of control, he said.ICT consultant and the Zimbabwe Digital Society director Chris Musodza welcomed the idea saying the introduction of smart phones in learning is inevitable. This is a very good move, the world is becoming more digital but there are fundamentals that need to be covered before it is put into effect, he said.With some countries having already started integrating technology into their learning, Musodza s concern was on the resource side of things. There are foundations that need to be covered like the internet access, teacher aptitude as well as the equipment, he said.Mr Musodza also asked questions on the use of computers which were rolled out to schools over the years. Before we get to introducing mobile phones, a survey needs to be done to see how the computers given to schools are being utilised. If not, it will not make sense introducing tablets and mobile phones, he said.However, Mr Musodza said the long term benefits brought by introducing technology in learning outweigh the negatives. Like with any other innovation there are dangers, but you cannot abandon a brilliant idea because of the potential dangers, he said. There are monitoring mechanisms which can be put in place to ensure pupils stay away from mischief on the internet, these include filters, content blocking and firewalls among, Mr Musodza said.On the resource availability concern, he urged the government to make use of the universal service fund to source the gadgets.There has been a fair amount of reservations towards the introduction of mobile technology into learning but it seems that is the way Africa and the world are heading. For better or worse. Since 2010, about 3,9 million school children in West Africa have benefited from a non-profit organisation called World reader. This is a mobile phone based platform sharing academic books and literature.Mobile phones in classrooms are surely going to claim a number of academic scalps but the world is becoming paperless by the day and that is a prospect no one can wish away.Feedback: dzengavisuals@gmail.com