PRIDE OF MASH WEST . . . The Ngezi Platinum Stars leadership and their new signings pose for a group picture at Baobab yesterdayPaul Mundandi :Sports ReporterNGEZI Platinum Stars president Stanley Segula says the small community should prepare for an historic moment as international football comes to their doorstep for the first time next month when they begin their campaign in the CAF Confederation Cup. Segula yesterday was upbeat his team will go past the group stages in the tournament. He was also confident that all the matches will be played at Baobab in Mashonaland West.Ngezi unveiled seven new acquisitions, who included goalkeepers coach Gift Muzadzi, who dumped giants Dynamos this week. The seven players unveiled were Qadr Amin, Mclive Phiri, Edgar Mhungu, Godknows Murwira, Dominic Mukandi, Mandlenkosi Mlilo and Zivanai Chikwenhere.Warriors goalkeeper Takabva Mawaya was the only player who was not unveiled as he is yet to put pen to paper. The former Hwange and ZPC Kariba keeper attended the function.Former Bulawayo City captain Xolisani Moyo is yet to be unveiled although he is at Ngezi pending the outcome of his case at the Footballers Union of Zimbabwe. The player is owed three months salary and signing-on fees by his former club.Ngezi off-loaded James Marufu, Innocent Sokosi, Daniel Kamunhenga, Marvelous Emmanuel, Zivanai Mhanda, Talent Chamboko and Kumbirai Kapikinyu. Segula said they were excited to bring the game to the province. The matches will be played here because the football team is a community project. The team must be identified with the community and I am happy that we managed to reclaim all our players. We want them to grow and excel in the region and if possible, at international level. That is the reason why we decided to play in Africa and we are targeting the group stages. It will be good for the country, the players and the Ngezi community. We want to create an environment where players will enjoy their football here and we want to make it hard for them to leave Ngezi because of the environment we are going to create. We are not cash-rich, but we just want to compete and maybe do more than we are doing. Segula was very confident his side will defend the Chibuku Super Cup. We have set a bar. We need to retain the Cup and I have a strong belief after adding these players. Club vice president Busi Chindove unveiled a new logo. Chindove said they wanted the logo to be associated with football as the previous one had nothing to do with the game. We want to link it with platinum as well. Platinum is a durable material which stands high levels of heat. This means we are not afraid of fire. It also exhibits the durability which we feel all the Ngezi players possess, she said.Ngezi Platinum Stars, who were supposed to travel to Mozambique for a friendly match yesterday, will now leave today and play Chingale on Sunday as part of their preparations for the African safari.Ngezi were yesterday still waiting for clearance from ZIFA and the Sports Commission.