SOUTHAMPTON. Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger admitted Danny Welbeck s performance against Southampton surprised him after the striker scored a brace on his first start in eight months on Saturday. Welbeck made three appearances as a late substitute earlier this month before Wenger handed him his first start since he suffered a serious knee injury last May.Wenger, who was forced to watch the match from the stands after receiving a four-match touchline ban, hailed Welbeck s marvellous resilience and was please to see him back amongst the goals in the Gunners emphatic 5-0 victory at St Mary s in the FA Cup fourth round.The Frenchman said: Danny Welbeck was very sharp because he has been working very hard. He comes back from a long way out and has gone through some very difficult moments mentally. But his resilience was absolutely marvellous and he was rewarded tonight, so we are happy. We were very dynamic, explosive and overall we had a good consistent performance over 90 minutes and everybody played well. Welbeck has been out for such a long time, I didn t expect him to score straight away and it shows the desire is there. People say I make changes, but I bring in Walcott, Welbeck and Perez, all top quality players. After that I try to find the best balance for the team. On the experience of watching his side from afar at St Mary s while assistant Steve Bould occupied the hotseat, Wenger added: You miss something. I have spent so much time on the bench that physically it is difficult to be far away, but the most important thing is Arsenal to win. And maybe Wenger should watch every match from the stands?The banned Arsenal boss watched on from on high as his team cruised past Southampton 5-0 in the FA Cup fourth round clash at St Mary s on Saturday, with Steve Bould overseeing the match.The ex-Arsenal centre-back turned assistant manager saw Theo Walcott score a hat-trick and Welbeck bag a brace on the south coast, with the Gunners dominating in what is the first match of Wenger s four-game ban following his behaviour against Burnley last weekend.And the nature of the win led to plenty of Gunners fans heaping praise on the man in the dugout in Wenger s absence.On Twitter it was very much a case of Bould in and Arsene who? It seems like Wenger has left the Gunners in good hands. AFP.