Abigail Mawonde Herald Correspondent THE country s average dam levels have increased, with some major dams recording 100 percent capacity. In a statement, Zimbabwe National Water Authority (zinwa) corporate communications manager Mrs Marjorie Munyonga said some of the country s major dams had started recording increases in water levels as most parts of the country continued to receive rains. Dams in the Matabeleland area have shown a positive increase in the latest recording, and a number of community dams have since been recorded full during the festive season. The national dam level average has also risen to 49 percent, which shows a rapid change since the last recording, though the figure is still below the national average expected during this time of the year, she said.The dam level average is usually around 60 percent during this time of the year.Mrs Munyonga urged Zimbabweans to use water responsibly. The Zimbabwe National Water Authority continues to urge water users in all sectors to use the available water sparingly and to practise rain-water harvesting. In case of floods, move to higher ground, also keep watching and listening to radio and television for information, she said.Mrs Munyonga urged water users to regularise their usage with the authority to avoid prosecution. The authority also appeals to irrigating farmers and other raw water users to ensure that they enter into water abstraction agreements with Zinwa as is required under the Water Act. Any use without the necessary documentation is illegal and offenders are liable to prosecution or risk having their supplies disconnected, she said.According to statistics tabled by Zinwa by January 10, 2017; Lower Mgusa and Khami dams, which feed into the Gwayi catchment, recorded 102,2 percent and 100 percent full, respectively. There was an 8,2 percent increase on Lower Mgusa Dam, while no increase was recorded on Khami when compared to the January 3 statistics.Isunkamini and Bupi Lupane dams, which also feed into the Gwayi catchment, recorded 92,4 percent and 57,5 percent, respectively. Both recorded a 30,3 percent and 6,8 percent increase respectively.Manyame Dam, which is used for irrigation and water supply to Norton and Harare recorded 80,1 percent full, while Chivero, used for the same purposes is 66,2 percent full.Mazvikadei Dam, which is used for irrigation and mining, recorded 82 percent full.Nyambuya Dam recorded 100 percent full, Kushinga Phikhelela 90,2 percent and Rufaro 85,2 percent. All the three dams feed into the Mazowe catchment with Nyambuya and Kushinga Phikhelela being used for irrigation and water supply while Rufaro is used for both purposes as well as in industry.Mazowe Dam used for irrigation recorded 4,8 percent which has not increased since January 3.In the Mzingwane Catchment, Mtshabezi Dam recorded 50,3 percent, Upper Ncema 19,1 percent, Lower Ncema 16,7 and Zhove 109,8 percent full.Runde Catchment s Manjirenji, Mutirikwi and Muzhwi dams recorded 10,7 percent, 7,4 percent and 32,4 percent full respectively.In the Save catchment, Odzani and Wenimbi dams recorded 102,2 percent and 102,4 percent full respectively. Siya Dam recorded 20,7 percent while Osborne Dam recorded 28,8 percent full.