MANCHESTER. Jose Mourinho has revealed that he has turned down a mega money offer to manage in China.The Manchester United boss is one of a raft of big names who has been targeted by Chinese Super League soccer clubs in recent years. A host of worldwide names have made the switch for mammoth wages, with the likes of Carlos Tevez earning over 600 000-a-week to play.But Mourinho has revealed that he has turned down a significant wage increase to remain in the Premier League.The Portuguese claims that he has no issue with players who choose to move to China and understands why they might be tempted to head there for a pay cheque.But Mourinho did admit that the money on offer has made it a little more difficult for Premier League teams to complete deals.Speaking to GQ, Mourinho said: If you are negotiating a new contract with one of your players, and you offer him 5m per year and they offer 25m, then you have a big problem. Maybe the player takes 5m because he prefers football. Or 25m because he prefers money. I have already refused a big offer to go to China, but I don t criticise anyone who decides to do it. It s their choice, their life. Only they can decide what they need for their future. Other managers in the Premier League have been critical, but I am no critic. I am worried, because they can offer contracts that are impossible to offer in Europe. But in the end the player who wants to go is a player that maybe you don t want to keep. Imagine the guy who is 24 or 25, and he wants to go? At 24, or 25? OK, goodbye, be happy . . . The player who is 31 or 32, and they go for a few years and then come back with a bank account full, OK. But when they are young and they have a chance to be in the best competitions, and they still decide to go, well maybe it is better that they go. A big money table for Wayne Rooney is on the table for Shanghai Shenua, meaning Mourinho could lose his club captain in the near future.He could become easily the highest-paid footballer in history with an offer which reportedly totals 900 000-a-week.The Chinese transfer window is open until the end of February and the Red Devils are believed to be ready to part company with their record goalscorer, should he want to go. The Mirror.