Donald Trump is sworn in as the 45th president of the United States by Chief Justice John Roberts as Melania Trump looks on during the 58th Presidential Inauguration in Washington yesterday. MailOnlineWASHINGTON. Donald Trump took power as the 45th president of the United States yesterday and pledged to pursue America First policies in an inaugural address that was a populist, anti-Washington rallying cry. Sketching a bleak vision of a country he said was ravaged by rusted-out factories, crime, gangs and drugs, Trump indirectly blamed his predecessors in the White House for policies that helped the establishment at the expense of struggling families. From this moment on, it s going to be America First, the Republican told hundreds of thousands of people gathered on the grounds of the National Mall after taking the oath of office on the West Front of the US Capitol.Four past US presidents, three Democrats and a Republican, sat nearby. Scattered street protests erupted against Trump elsewhere in Washington. Every decision on trade, on taxes, on immigration, on foreign affairs, will be made to benefit American workers and American families, Trump said, describing the country s social and economic ills as American carnage. Trump (70) takes over a country divided after a savage election campaign. A wealthy New York businessman and former reality TV star, he will set the country on a new, uncertain path at home and abroad.Trump s inaugural address revisited the themes of the campaign rally speeches that carried him to an improbable victory on November 8 over Democrat Hillary Clinton, who attended the ceremony with her husband, former president Bill Clinton.Under pressure to unite the country after the bitterly fought campaign, Trump said that through allegiance to the United States, we will rediscover our loyalty to each other and called for a new national pride that would help heal divisions.Abroad, Trump signalled the possibility of a more aggressive approach to Islamic State militants than his immediate predecessor, Democrat Barack Obama. We will reinforce old alliances and form new ones and unite the civilised world against radical Islamic terrorism, which we will eradicate completely from the face of the earth, he said.After repeating the 35-word oath of office, Trump stretched his arms wide and hugged his wife, Melania and other members of his family. Ceremonial cannon blasts fired.The transition from a Democratic president to a Republican took place before a crowd of former presidents, dignitaries and hundreds of thousands of people on the grounds of the National Mall. The crowd stretched westward on a cool day of occasional light rain.Away from the Capitol, masked activists ran through the streets smashing windows with hammers at a McDonald s restaurant, a Starbucks coffee shop and a steakhouse several blocks from the White House.They carried black anarchist flags and signs that said, Join the resistance, fight back now. Police used pepper spray and chased them down a major avenue.In another location not far from the White House, protesters also scuffled with police, at one point throwing aluminium chairs at them at outdoor caf .Former presidents George W. Bush and Jimmy Carter were present at the inauguration with their wives. Bush s father, former President George H.W. Bush (92) was in Houston recovering from pneumonia.Trump and his vice president, Mike Pence, began the day with a prayer service at St. John s Episcopal Church near the White House.Trump took office with work to do to bolster his image.An ABC News/Washington Post poll this week found only 40 percent of Americans viewed him favourably, the lowest rating for an incoming president since Democrat Carter in 1977 and the same percentage approved of how he has handled the transition.During a testy transition period since his election win, Trump has repeatedly engaged in Twitter attacks against his critics, so much so that one fellow Republican, Senator John McCain, told CNN that Trump seemed to want to engage with every windmill that he can find. Reuters.