Paul Mundandi: Sports ReporterCHICKEN Inn chairman Lifa Ncube has quit his post with the club amid a growing fallout within the Premiership over their boardroom battle with ZIFA. Some hawks within the top-flight league, who include Triangle chairman Lovemore Matikinyidze, have been pushing for a showdown with ZIFA by pressing that their dispute with the Association should be heard by the Court for Arbitration for Sport in Switzerland.The majority of the top-flight league s clubs, led by powerhouses Dynamos, CAPS United, Highlanders and FC Platinum, have been calling for the withdrawal of the case from CAS.Ncube and Matikinyidze were the two leaders who signed a document authorising the PSL to release $17 000 to pay to CAS for their case to be heard.DeMbare president, Kenny Mubaiwa, refused to sign the document. The document was signed on January 8 but it is unclear how Ncube, who is in Mauritius, signed the letter. It is with a heavy heart that I write to inform you of my decision to resign from being the chairman of Chicken Inn Football Club with effect from the 31st of January 2017, Ncube said. Other commitments have arisen that hinder me from committing myself fully to this post. I feel it is imperative for me to step down for someone with more time and energy to devote to the position. I take this opportunity to thank my fellow executive committee members, coaches and players, fans and the directors of Simbisa Brands Limited, for the co-operation extended to me during my twelve years as the Gamecocks chairman. I take this opportunity to wish Chicken Inn Football Club every success in its future endeavors. Ncube guided Chicken Inn to the league title in 2015. I am travelling a lot and as I speak I am in Mauritius and I will be here for a while working. I feel we need someone who will be available every time It s not about the relegation and promotion issue. I never signed a document for the release of $17000. I have been out of Zimbabwe and I am not even in the picture of what is happening. Talk to Kenny (Mubaiwa) and if he is not around talk to (PSL chief excutive) Kenny (Ndebele). 