Charles ManyuchiPaul Mundandi Sports Reporter&#8212;CHARLES Manyuchi has promised to be ruthless in defence of his WBC silver welterweight title when he fights Qudratillo Abduqaxorov of Uzbekistan in Singapore in March. The Uzbekistani, who is ranked third in his country, challenged Manyuchi for the belt and the Zimbabwean boxer will once again have to defend his title on foreign land.Abduqaxorov has never lost a match in his eight fights. I am going to destroy Qudratillo. I am going there to defend my belt, I am training hard because many boxers lose because they tend not to train when they are challenged. When other people were celebrating their Christmas and New Year holidays, Manyuchi was training at the Kopje in Harare in preparation for the fight. I will be leaving the country next week for Zambia where I will continue with my preparations, said Manyuchi.He defeated Russia s Dmitry Mikhaylenko in May last year, to become the WBC welterweight silver champion.The 27-year-old Zimbabwean is blessed with hand speed, power and punching accuracy.In October last year, Manyuchi turned on a boxing masterclass, in his homecoming show, to knock out his Colombian opponent Jose Agustin Julio Feria in just 2 minutes and 42 seconds in this World Council Boxing sanctioned non-title fight at Harare International Conference Centre.This was his first fight in front of his home fans since he powered his way into global recognition. I am working hard. I am dedicated. I love my country and I want Zimbabwe to be known because of Manyuchi the boxer, the Warriors, tennis and other sports, he said. We have many Manyuchis in the country and we must give the youth an opportunity to become boxers since a lot of them want to emulate me. I thank God for taking me this far and I believe in his word which gives me strength every day. I am promising the nation that I will go and defend the title for them. God will not fail me and God will not fail Zimbabwe. I am targeting gold now. God has been doing wonders and my advice for people in sport is to believe in God as juju does not work. I urge those in sport not to take drugs as well. I am proud of myself in the sense that I neither drink nor smoke. Manyuchi trains under Zambian stable, Oriental Quarries Boxing Promotions, which is headed by Chris Malunga.