Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter&#8212;AS the country gears up to host the CANA Zone IV Swimming and Waterpolo Championships in a few weeks time, the local organising committee says preparations are on track with a mock event set for February 3 and 4 at Bulawayo City Pool. The championships will run from February 16 to 19 in Bulawayo, with Zone IV countries taking part.So far 11 countries from the zone Angola, Botswana, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Seychelles, South Africa, Zambia and hosts Zimbabwe have confirmed their participation.Kenya and Tanzania from Zone III have also been invited to grace the meet.Media and protocol liaison on the local organising committee, Mary Mankola, said they are in the final stages of their preparations. Final checks are being made and all is in order. A complete mock-up event of both swimming and waterpolo is being hosted at the City Pool on the February 3 and 4 and we are expecting leaders from the various stakeholders to attend and give us final directions. We, as the Local Organising Committee comprising members from both Harare and Bulawayo, are in a good place regarding our athletes and facilities. We have other stakeholders like the City of Bulawayo and Government through the Sports Commission, who have walked this journey with us and we are very confident that the championships will go well and run smoothly, said Mankola.Zimbabwe is expecting to host more than 300 participants and Mankola said they are ready for the championships. We are ready for our visitors and our ports have been informed again thanks to the Sports Commission. Accommodation has been secured, so has transport to ferry our swimmers between the venue and their accommodation. Our principals at CANA Zone IV secretariat are very happy with our progress, as we are. We are expecting approximately 370 competitors in total. Some countries are still finalising their teams, said Mankola.Zimbabwe will be banking their hopes on the likes of Robyn Lee, Brendon Cyprianos, Devyn Leask and Shamiso Gambe, who were all part of the team that represented the country at the African Union Sports Council Region Five Under-20 Youth Games last December in Angola.This is the second time Zimbabwe is hosting the CANA Zone IV Championships, having hosted in 2007. And for the first time, swimming and waterpolo will run at the same time.Currently, Zimbabwe and South Africa are the only countries that compete in waterpolo as it is still at a developmental stage.Participating countries are expected to start arriving between February 14 and 15. TeamZimbabwe ABoys 12 and UnderJosh Covill, Callum Morgan, Benoni Nhekairo, Cory Werret, Callum Davis.Boys 13/14Denilson Cyprianos, Marcelle Masvikeni, Dylan Huang, Regis Chimombe, Graham Hoal.Boys 15/16Dale Bruce, Ayman Khatoum, Liam Davis, Liam O Hara.Boys 17 and OverBrendon Cyprianos, Miguel Umali, Craig van den Berg, Mmelwa Netsha.Girls 12 and UnderKiara Goodinson, Donata Katai, Kundai Nyambawaro, Nyasha Chinyani, Siara Ramajan.Girls 13/14Paige van der Westhuizen, Courtney Brown, Hannah Mitchell, Chiedza Mtetwa, Riana Rollo.Girls 15/16Maryke Koen, Ashley Makuwa, Claire Melrose, Shamiso Gambe, Amy Doorman, Jessica McAllister.Girls 17 and OverRobyn Lee, Devyn Leask, Nyasha Mukonoweshuro, Rutendo Maruta.Zimbabwe B TeamBoys 12 and UnderStanley Madziyire, Connor Malloch-Brown, Dean Jones.Boys 13/14Tyrel Cooke, Jake Oostindien, Kallen Wilke, Tait Mills.Boys 15/16Cole Onorati, Jaryd Lezar, Roan Isemonger, Jordan Smith, Quinton Tayali.Boys 17 and OverTakudzwa Nyamutsamba, Vuyisile Mjimba, Zack Langridge.Girls 12 and UnderTimea Schultz, Makanaka Mawere, Kelly Rossiter.Girls 13/14Savannah du Preez, Anotida Makonese, Lindiwe Bhebe, Aisha Mahommad.Girls 15/16Hannah Putterill, Hollie Stander, Yemurai Shangwa, Sancia Bravo, Siduduziwe Mswabuki, Kayley Jones.Girls 17 and OverCourtney McAllister, Claire Peacocke, Cerise Dingiswayo.