Mr ChokudaNyemudzai Kakore:Herald CorrespondentParliament resumed sitting yesterday with the Finance, Appropriation and the Constitution of Zimbabwe Amendment (Number 1) Bills expected to top the agenda during the course of the session, Clerk of Parliament Mr Kennedy Chokuda said. The Finance and Appropriation Bills intend to give authority to the Government to withdraw from the Consolidated Fund, the amounts voted for meeting the expenditure during the financial year while the Constitution of Zimbabwe Amendment Bill seeks to give the President sole power to appoint a Chief Justice, Deputy Chief Justice and Judge President of his choice whenever such vacancies arise.Mr Chokuda, in an interview yesterday, said 15 Bills were at Parliament while 13 had been gazetted. He said this week, the National Assembly portfolio committees are expected to centre on presenting their reports on the budget following submissions by the ministries and interested parties. This week we expect the National Assembly to deal with the budget statement by debating the Finance and Appropriation Bills as this will make for the 2017 budget. We have 15 Bills that are in the system of Parliament, 13 have been gazetted but we have others that have been introduced in Parliament, he said. Some of the Bills that have been introduced in Parliament are the Deeds Registries Amendment, Judicial Laws Amendment, Land Commission, Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe Amendment and the National Competitiveness. Last month, Finance and Economic Development Minister Patrick Chinamasa tabled a $4,1 billion budget in Parliament. Mr Chokuda said they were expecting more Bills from the Ministry of Justice Legal and Parliamentary Affairs for the realignment of the Constitution.Meanwhile, Mr Chokuda in a statement said the Senate is expected to resume sitting next Tuesday, while thematic committees would have resumed their sittings the previous day. The Clerk of Parliament, Mr Kennedy Chokuda would like to inform all Senators that sittings of the Senate will resume on Tuesday,January 31, 2017. Thematic Committees of the Senate will resume their sittings on Monday, January 30, 2017, read the statement.