Tatenda Charamba Herald Reporter Home Affairs Minister Dr Ignatius Chombo is in Chennai, India, where he is meeting officials from Eagle Press Private Limited to discuss ways of improving the operations of State Lotteries. The Minister is accompanied by Home Affairs Ministry Secretary Mr Melusi Matshiya, and Lotteries and Gaming Board chief executive Mr Heavens Gonga for the week-long visit.Speaking from India, Dr Chombo said Government wanted to take advantage of the advanced technology being used in India in gaming and gambling. We are here to discuss ways of revamping the State Lotteries and Gaming Board whose income has dwindled and is technically non-functional, he said. Eagles Press is India s top security printing and gaming company that is involved in gaming activities in more than 40 countries worldwide. We are also looking at technology to monitor in real time what is going on in our gaming and gambling enterprises throughout the country. The long and short of it is we wish to review and improve on betting, racing and State Lotteries, taking advantage of new technologies available nowadays. He said the two parties also wanted to monitor the progress made in the implementation of a Memorandum of Understanding signed between Eagle Press and State Lotteries in 2014. The MoU is for the supply of Lottery equipment and its management, Dr Chombo said. We are going to partake in business architecture and familiarisation of tour operations. A review of instant lottery (scratch cards) and real time lottery distribution pilot phase will be made. Expressing hope for the revival of the lottery industry, Dr Chombo said: Focus on market dynamics and marketing wizardry will be done. Exhibition of the contemporary innovative lottery technology, which includes examination of the equipment, simulation or demonstration and customisation or adaption to suit the Zimbabwe market are on the list of our programme. Most African countries are battling to deal with online gaming that has seen unsuspecting individuals falling prey to illegal gamblers.Lotteries and gaming have potential to contribute significantly to the gross domestic product of the country.Countries like the United Kingdom, which have advanced technologies rake in billions of dollars from the industry.