Sports ReporterCOUNTRY Club 2010 has dismissed as false reports that they are refusing to leave Country Club golf and said they are still in charge of management as per agreement they struck with other partners. This comes after seven County Club golf members, who had not paid their dues, were arrested on Wednesday. Country Club 2010 managing director, Mandikudza Sithole, yesterday said they were given the mandate to run the club when the Country Club executive was struggling, but some people now want to push them out because of the changes they have effected.Sithole dismissed as false reports that Country Club had an eviction order from the courts and said the case was still before the courts. They have not even taken over the club, Country Club 2010 is still running the club according to the law until the courts have ruled, said Sithole. And, in any case, in my own opinion, I think the courts are going to rule in our favour because these are people who are failing to give us leeway to be able to execute our duties according to our contract. They keep throwing spanners in the works of what we are trying to achieve. In fact this Irimayi (Madyambudzi) guy is the former captain, he is not even the captain anymore, he was voted out. The records are very clear at Country Club that he is not even the captain. And also they claim to have received an order from the court, there is no such order that exists because if they had an eviction order we would have long left. We wouldn t be running the club. We were not relieved of our duties. The case has never gone through the courts. When they tried to evict us, we wrote back to them and the issue has now gone to the courts and I have the case number, HC4362 /16, where they are trying to evict us, we are countering. Sithole said they have invested a lot of money into the club and the members have to pay their subscriptions to use the facilities. So Country Club 2010 came in, invested a lot of money, built a club house, renovated offices, put irrigation systems in place and renovated a lot of things.