ZBC vehicle set ablazeFungai Lupande Court Reporter&#8212;A Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation (ZBC) driver last week emotionally described how he watched as the company vehicle he was driving was torched by protesters aligned to MDC-T in Harare on August 24 last year. The driver, Mr Makesure Cheza, was the first State witness as the trial of the 22 suspects started.He was waiting to pick up his workmates when the vehicle he was driving was attacked. It was on August 24 last year around 2pm when I was accompanying workers to and from work, said Mr Cheza. I was driving company vehicle registration number ACM 2664. As I waited at our pick-up point along Julius Nyerere Way, I saw people coming towards us. The vehicle had a company logo and the people started throwing stones. I was hit on my head and fearing for our lives, we disembarked. Mr Cheza said he used the passenger door because the protesters were coming towards the driver s side. I stumbled upon the handbrake and gear lever, he said. I dropped two cell-phones and the car keys in the process. All my workmates had run away and I waited at the footbridge. A man wearing a red T-shirt started the vehicle and stopped it after four metres. He slashed all the tyres and another man in a blue T-shirt started the fire on the driver s side using cardboard boxes. The vehicle was in flames. Riot police and water cannons came and I hid in a nearby building. Later, I saw the Fire Brigade, but the vehicle was already damaged. I did not recognise anyone. I later went to the hospital because my head was injured. The lawyer representing the 22 suspects, Mr Tonderai Bhatasara, said there was no need for cross-examination.The 22 include Promise Mkwananzi, Bruce Usvisvo, Ishmael Kauzani, Kunashe Muchemwa, Tinotenda Mhungu, Tendai Mandimika and Tonderai Chakeredza.They pleaded not guilty and in their defence gave alibis.Mr Bhatasara said some of the accused were arrested while at their workplace at Roslin House along Nelson Mandela Avenue.Mandimika said he was a freelance journalist and was taking pictures of the burning ZBC and police vehicles when he was arrested.Harare magistrate Mr Lazini Ncube adjourned the trial to February 6.Prosecutor Ms Nancy Chandakaona alleged that the gang teamed up and held a public gathering along Nelson Mandela Avenue where they had a public meeting in Harare s central business district.It is alleged that they conspired to proceed within the CBD and caused public violence, setting ablaze State-owned properties which included two motor vehicles &#8211; a Ford Ranger belonging to the police and the Mazda BT50 belonging to ZBC.The court heard that the gang allegedly stoned privately-owned motor vehicles, looted from shops and disturbed peace, security and order.