Teen sensation Ice KingForgive Marimbita Cool Lifestyle Correspondent There is no doubt that China is becoming the latest civilisation and more and more people, be it professionals, academics, businessmen, sports personalities, musicians and politicians, among others, are looking East. The same also applies to Zimbabwean and African artistes in general who have now found a market in China and this has been further cemented by the cordial relations that Zimbabwe and China enjoy.Recently Shinsoman wowed the crowd in China on Christmas day during his tour.Taking the Zimbabwean Afro-pop and Zim-Dancehall culture to China is none other than local teen rapper, Farai Mukundidza affectionately known as, Ice King .The 18-year-old is set to leave for China on Tuesday, and is scheduled to perform at Monkey Champagne next Saturday courtesy of Zhun Binging.The talented singer is testimony to how opportunities can come one s way and when they do, how important it is for one to grab and use them.Travelling to China is not like commuting to your nearest ghetto next door.It is about breaking new ground, hence the reason why Ice King is thrilled by this journey.In an interview with Cool Lifestyle, Ice King said preparations for the tour are at advanced stage. I am so happy to travel to China because its my first time to go to that country.I am going to market Zimbabwe through my music and lyrics which talk a lot about Zimbabwe and I am also going to spread our culture. We need to keep the two countries close through art and culture. I have been in studio for past weeks and also doing some Chinese lessons so that I will suprise them, he said.Inspired by Tyga, P Square and Vybz Kartel, whom he calls his role models in music, the artiste said he was raring to go and show the Chinese the good stuff that comes from Zimbabwean singers. We Zimbabweans have got talent that s sought after the world over and China is the next biggest thing to happen to us, he said.Ice King cited lack of support and appreciation as a stumbling block in his chosen career. I am facing a few problems, you know, sometimes it s so hard to enter into the music field because some people will be discouraging you but with God everything is just possible. I grew up in Waterfalls and music was my passion. I started singing at a tender age of six years. The former Lord Malvern student said he still continuing with his academics despite having a lot of shows. I finished school last year and I am looking forward to enrol in China, come August to study a diploma in human resources, he said.The teen sensation said writes and composes his songs. I have wrote many tracks such as Jah Bless produced by Ptk, Let s Party by Cashlibs and Ndipe Kuvha by DJ Tony among others. I also have some videos which I have done before with Tala Music but this year I am realising a new album with high quality videos, he said.