COOL RELOADED WITH SWAGGA THello cool teens. We re back to business and hope the school term has begun on a high note.How has your first week at school been?We are so excited that things have changed drastically. Gone are the days when we used to see or hear that a Form One student cried after being dropped off at boarding school. Well done for that and we pray there will be no stories of bullies or abuses at school this year. We hear that you re coping up with the new curriculum. Be guided, you need to start well on first term as it is the guide for the whole year.Our social media was abuzz with some of the first day pictures #firstdayatschool and we apologise that we couldn t reply all your messages but the good thing is we read them all.The rains are persisting and we hope they might end soon but you need to be very careful as it turns out to be uncool playing with dirty water. Enough said on back to school, our gadget of the week is the Magic wand remote from Amazon.You know you have always wanted to be a wizard. If you are bored of the same old TV remote, why not ditch it for this magic wand remote. Use flicks of your wrist to change the channel and big sweeping moves to record your favourite TV show.The wand will learn up to 13 commands from your old remote and you can choose which moves control each command, making your remote un-hijackable! It will also work on your Sky box, stereo or any other infra-red deviceBut not one of those swish and flick wizards from the movies.You want to be the Dungeons &amp; Dragons wizard the party s controller. The Wand is the ultimate when you want to be an elite controller.Once you master its 13 movements, you can mastermind a symphony of electronic enjoyment from the comfort of your couch. Then, and only then, are you an epic level controller.So far it is already in the country and costing $79, ummm.Hope you don t start saving for it but let your parents buy it for you while you re busy with the books.In the early 2000 Vin Diesel was not only a hero to many but favourite too.He rose to fame with his XXX movies and later came back in the Fast and Furious series now he is back.Yes Vin Diesel is back with XXX, third explosive, 107 min action movie which is set to be released on January 20, directed by D.J. Caruso.It was written by F. Scott Frazier, Chad St John and Rich Wilkes. Cast include Nina Dobrev, Ruby Rose, Vin Diesel, Samuel L. Jackson, Toni Collette and Donnie Yen.The third explosive chapter of the blockbuster franchise that redefined the spy thriller finds extreme athlete turned government operative Xander Cage (Vin Diesel) coming out of self-imposed exile and on a collision course with deadly alpha warrior Xiang and his team in a race to recover a sinister and seemingly unstoppable weapon known as Pandora s Box.Recruiting an all-new group of thrill-seeking cohorts, Xander finds himself enmeshed in a deadly conspiracy that points to collusion at the highest levels of world governments.Packed with the series signature deadpan wit and bad-ass attitude, xxx: Return of Xander Cage will raise the bar on extreme action with some of the most mind-blowing stunts to ever be caught on film.We hope you attend the premiere and lucky winners will walk away with movie tickets.