Tinashe Makichi Motoring Correspondent &#8212; Available as a king cab or a double cab, the new Nissan Navara has it all, including a powerful and efficient engine, a strong chassis and an interior that offers comfort. A smart car for your leisure time or a tough working tool, the Navara is whatever you want it to be. The car is set to hit the Sub-Saharan Africa market (Zimbabwe included) in this first quarter. In fact, we are so confident in the robustness and quality of the all-new Navara that we offer a 5 year / 100,000 miles manufacturer warranty as standard. Our proud legacy, shared among 14 million pick-up owners blazing trails in 180 countries, continues today. As long as there s adventure on the horizon, Nissan will lead the way, said Nissan in a statement.Tough, agile and stylish, the all new Navara is the latest in a long line of Nissan pick-up trucks produced first in 1935. Along the way Nissan pioneered the king cab in 1977, the innovative C-Channel tie-down system in 2005, and now the first use on a one tonne pick-up of five-link rear suspension, forward emergency braking and around view monitor.The robust 2,3-litre 190 PS twin turbo or 160 PS single turbo diesel engine of the all new Navara proven over millions of miles, delivers the rugged performance and fantastic efficiency you demand from a pick-up truck, with fuel economy of up to 46, 3mpg and carbon dioxide emissions from 159 g/kmWith its one tonne payload, the all new Navara pick-up truck is ready for the biggest work or play challenges and it has plenty of muscle to haul anything anywhere.Whether it s in the depths of the countryside or the concrete jungle, the all-new Navara is always in its element. There are three driving modes four-wheel drive high for light off-roading, four-wheel drive Low for serious off-road driving in sand, snow or deep mud, or two-wheel drive for when you re on tarmac. With features such as Hill Start Assist and Hill Descent Control, it s the pick-up truck that s ready for anything, giving great traction even in two-wheel drive mode thanks to its electronic Limited Slip Differential.The all-new Navara has a fully boxed ladder chassis rather than the three-sided channel-section frame found on some other pick-ups. There s also the new five-link rear suspension, unique in the pick-up segment. This gives a better ride and more agile handling, without compromising load-carrying ability.The all-new Navara pick-up truck is engineered to handle tough jobs, with a class-leading towing capacity of 3,5 tonnes and a payload of over one tonne. Securing your cargo is easy, too, thanks to Nissan s innovative C-channel tie-down system. Movable cleats can be locked in special tracks on the sides and front of the pick-up bed, so you can safely secure any load, of any shape or size.The all-new Navara pick-up truck features a host of convenient technology that will get you on your way with the push of a button, help focus your attention on the road and work hard to keep you connected and safe. Now that s smart and user friendly.Twitter handle: @MakichiTinashe