How are you everyone? Let me start by introducing myself. I have been in the arts industry for a long time and passionately followed events in our interesting terrain that is always full of fun and surprises. I am an artiste who has pursued various genres although my main interest is music.I cannot say I have been successful as a musician but I have worked with various singers and amassed great experience.For the purpose of this column and to avoid direct confrontation with fellow artistes, I will not use my real name. For now, just call me Elder Zex.I will be writing letters to fellow artistes every week concerning various issues. The letters will be specifically addressed to individuals although I might divert to general issues here and there.That is why I have named this column Check Your Mail . Artistes should keep checking this mailbox. Most of them will definitely receive their letters here. So, keep checking the mail.Our terrain is always on the limelight because most people follow showbiz. Celebrities in this terrain have become talking points on various platforms for positive and negative reasons.The good thing is that the industry continues to churn out talented artistes and we keep the nation entertained.By its very nature of universal appeal, music has the largest following among arts genres throughout the world.While most musicians will tell you they started singing at school or in a church choir, the ladder to fame usually involves going through professional training at a college or getting individual mentorship.After training, most musicians begin their careers as members of established music groups.The majority of our popular singers began in the shadows of big names although a few have been fortunate enough to go it solo from the beginning.Where are we heading to here? Your guess could be right. It is the recent story about Baba Harare s intention to leave Jah Prayzah s Third Generation Band.I call it intention because, despite his recent resignation, he was back on stage last Sunday. And despite the final announcement on stage by Jah Prayzah that his talented lead guitarist will be leaving the band for good, we are still to see him away from that outfit.What is interesting is the way he has planned his departure. He announced his upcoming album before leaving the group, formally resigned and even agreed to return to perform at one show.That is a very rare occurrence. Most departures of band members and splits of groups are acrimonious. They are coloured with accusations and animosity. Few musicians have gone the Baba Harare way.However, what remains a fact is that splits and departures have created the big names of the industry for many years. Sometimes acrimonious splits come as blessings in disguise, but it would be great for the industry to have more off-shoots like Baba Harare.It is obvious that he can easily work with Jah Prayzah in other projects thereafter and that encourages unity in the industry.It is disheartening to have stories of musicians that do not share the stage because of hostile splits. Well done Baba Harare and wish you the best on your new path (if you finally leave for good).Fellow artistes keep checking your mail every Wednesday.