Andy MuridzoTawanda Marwizi Arts Correspondent &#8212; Contemporary musician Andy Muridzo has announced the coming of his third album Tichambotenderera that will be launched in March at 7 Arts Theatre in Avondale. The young musician said it will carry 12 tracks that will define the real Muridzo.With the copy cat tag loosely hanging above his head because of the similarities of his music and that of Jah Prayzah, Muridzo is out to prove a point to Zimbabweans. We have done our best to create something unique. Jah Prayzah is my brother and he inspired me, but let me hasten to say I am not a copycat. I have got my own style, he said.Muridzo, who managed to make a grant entry on the local scene, said he tried to be his own man on the new project. People say a lot about me and Jah Prayzah but musically we are different. We have different styles though they might be similar in people s eyes, he said.His second album Ngarizhambe was well received with fans and songs Chidhafudhunda and Dherira have since proved to be popular with music fans. I have learnt a lot from the previous album and the people s feedback was instrumental. We work to improve and I tell you I have give it my all, he said.He will sample some of the songs starting this weekend when he performs at Club Veritas in Westlea. We have not been playing the songs because they were not yet ready. We have done the groundwork for the album now and we will be playing then starting at Club Veritas this weekend, he said. I usually work with the people s responses at shows when you sample new songs. We believe in team work together with the fans, he said.Muridzo would be working with the producer of the previous album, Maselo.Maselo said he was confident of the project that will define the young musician as his own man. As a producer I work with different musicians but the young musician has tried to be his own man, he said.He said he has shown his creativity on the 12 songs. Meanwhile, the month of March will come with several album launches as Mathias Mhere will be launching an album New Testament .Sungura ace Alick Macheso has hinted on a new album that would be released on March 24.