President-elect TrumpNEW YORK. &#8211; US President-elect Donald Trump s clear warning to North Korea shows he is aware of the urgency of the threat posed by its nuclear programme and will not waver from a policy of sanctions against the isolated country, South Korea said yesterday. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said on Sunday his nuclear-capable country was close to test-launching an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM), raising the prospect of putting parts of the United States in range.Trump dismissed the claim, saying on Twitter: It won t happen. South Korea s foreign ministry said Trump s comment, his first mention of the North Korean nuclear issue since the US election in November, could be interpreted as a clear warning to the North. Because of our active outreach, President-elect Trump and US officials are clearly aware of the gravity and urgency of the North Korean nuclear threat, ministry spokesman Cho June-hyuck told a briefing. They are maintaining an unwavering stance on the need for sanctions on North Korea and for close cooperation between South Korea and the US .Trump has not outlined a policy on North Korea but during the US election campaign indicated he would be willing to talk its leader, Kim, given the opportunity.He has also been critical of China over the issue. On Monday, Trump said China had benefited from its economic ties with the United States but would not use its influence to help control North Korea.Responding to the comment, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said China had been pushing for the denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula. China s efforts in this regard are perfectly obvious, Geng told a news briefing. As a permanent member of the UN Security Council we have proactively participated in relevant discussions on the North Korean nuclear issue and have jointly passed several resolutions with other parties. This shows China s responsible attitude .The United States has for years dismissed North Korean calls for talks, insisting it must disarm first.Instead, the United States and ally South Korea have responded to two North Korean nuclear tests and various missile tests last year with ever-more severe sanctions. - Reuters.