Collin Matiza,Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporters&#8212;IN a move aimed at raising the profile of the motorcycling sport of motocross in Zimbabwe, a new club for riders the Grainger Racing KTM Team has been formed in Harare. The Grainger Racing KTM motocross team was officially launched in Harare last Thursday with seven riders affiliated to the motorcycling club.The motocross team will be led by England-based rider Damon Strydom who has promised a lot during this year s national events in Zimbabwe and South Africa.Strydom (23), whose parents hails from Gweru but was living in England for the past six years, did all his junior racing in South Africa and will this year take part in the South African and British National Championship Series.The team captain felt honoured to be part of the Grainger Racing KTM Team and believes he will help the local youngsters to become professional riders. It feels great to be back home and be given the responsibility to lead a club that has a vision. I hope to help the youngsters with ideas and hopefully one day we will have a world champion. Our intention is to take part in all the national events in Zimbabwe as well as the South African nationals. As MX1 and MX2 rider I think my experience will help these youngsters and I also thank Gary Grainger and Alfie Cox for the noble idea of forming this club, said Strydom.The team, which was formed some six years ago, has talented riders like Regan Wasmuth, Tristan Grainger, Daiyaan Manuel, Luke Southon, David Southon and Tiaan Prinsloo.Speaking at the launch, the team s principal Gary Grainger said their aim is to formalise their club and continue assisting riders based in Zimbabwe who have shown talent and commitment to the sport. The Grainger Racing KTM motocross team has been formed to assist the Zimbabwe based riders that have shown talent and commitment to the sport. We have been assisting young riders for the past six years with their dreams of becoming international motocross riders. The formation of the club has enabled us to formulate a strong foundation on which to base a formal team that can support the riders. We formalised the team in December 2016 and since then we have received great support and continue to search for assistance for our riders to ensure they get to the start line more prepared than the competition. The team was selected from a core group that have been racing in Zimbabwe and South Africa for the past few years, added Gary Grainger, who is also the chairman of the Bogwheelers Club who run motocross in Zimbabwe.Some members of the team trained at Donnybrook over the weekend before Strydom and Wasmuth left for South Africa to get their new bikes and prepare for the new season.Wasmuth (15) will be competing in the 125cc High School class for the Grainger Racing KTM Team this year.As a past FIM Africa and South African champion, Wasmuth is no stranger to the podium and will be ready to show his experience in this talented class.Wasmuth is joined in Grainger Racing KTM Team by fellow talented, young rider Daiyaan Manuel. A 65cc rider for 2017, Manuel is super fast and after having finished second in the class in 2016, Dee is a firm favourite to win the South African, Zimbabwean and FIM Africa Championships this year.The team also has an 85cc Pro mini rider Tristan Grainger. Having won the FIM Africa, Southern Aafrica Challenge, South African and Zimbabwean titles in 2012, Tristan will be a top contender in the class for the next two years.They also have Veteran and Open two-stroke class rider in David Bonz Southon. Southon has been racing since Junior 85 s and brings the Old School values with him into the team.He is also the team s Hole-Shot King and has shown that he can run with the best on his 250 two-stroke.Seven-year-old 50cc rider Luke Southon is also part of the Grainger Racing KTM Team. With two years left in the class, Luke will be competing at the top level to prepare himself for some good results when he reaches the maximum age.Luke has shown the will to win from a young age and will no doubt be a top contender in the future.His family has a long history of racing and have shown great commitment to the sport over the years.The other member of the Grainger Racing KTM Team is South Africa-based Tiaan Prinsloo.Prinsloo is a relatively new rider on the motocross scene. At 15 years old and racing in the 125cc Class, the young rider and his family have also shown great commitment to the sport and being based in Polokwane (formerly Louis Trichadt), they have built their own state-of-the-art track and formed a club.