Sophia Chese-Msowa Arts Correspondent &#8212; Zimbabweans have been glued to the small screen for the past few months since local drama Muchaneta premiered on ZTV. The drama series has left many in stitches and waiting anxiously for the next episode. This is a result of the exciting cast that has mad the local drama a must watch.One of these characters is Muchaneta, a daughter-in-law who has proved to be problematic to her own husband and her in-laws.Not only is her behaviour problematic, it has also become an eye-opener to some women.Muchaneta does not only portray a problematic character but a hardworking woman selling ice creams and second hand clothes popularly known as mabhero .But people are eager to know the character behind Muchaneta.The woman is none other than Kessia Masona, a musician, dancer, TV personality and comedian.In an interview, Masona, a BSc Degree in Community Development student at the Women s University said Muchaneta and Kessia share a lot of similarities though they differ in some instances. Both Muchaneta and Kessia are independent and hard working women who work for themselves. They both have two children, Muchaneta has two girls while Kessia has two boys, she said.She said the twin characters fight for women s rights. They are the voice of the voiceless. They stand for what is right and both have a free spirit, she said.Masona, who has shared the stage with a number of artists locally, said being energetic is another similarity that is there between Muchaneta and Kessia. I can tell you that the energy you see in Muchaneta is the same energy that Kessia has. The only difference is Muchaneta is on set while Kessia will be on stage. We are both energetic. The two characters are also talkative, as it were.However, Masona said there are other traits that Muchaneta has that Kessia does not have.This includes the aggression, ill-mannered and an uncivilized character. Not everything is the same with the two characters. We also differ, for instance Muchaneta is aggressive while Kessia is the complete opposite because Kessia loves to laugh and is very compassionate. Masona believes Muchaneta is an uncivilized woman who always puts her needs first. The other thing is Kessia is well cultured while Muchaneta is ill-mannered to such an extent that no one will want her as a daughter in law, she is not an ideal daughter in law, not at all, she said. Meanwhile, Musona said her fans should expect a lot from her in music and television.She will launch a sing very soon. People do not understand that when we are on stage we will be in our own office doing our job. When we are portraying a character on TV, that does not mean that s who I am, Masona said.She said her single will tackle such issues.It also warns young and upcoming female artists against dangers associated with exploitative men in the industry.