Tafadzwa Zimoyo Tv Column &#8212; If you are one of those people who are struggling to nurse the so-called January Disease , then television viewing can do you good, by giving you dosages of laughter that will definitely relieve you of financial stress You can also glean new ideas on how best to deal with this problem from a coterie of programmes that are on offer on ZBC TV.Thanks to Zimbabwe s creative minds that are constantly coming up with brilliant ideas that make up interesting movie and drama scripts, television viewers have been kept glued to their screens since new drama series premi red on ZTV sometime mid-last year.Programmes such as Muzita Rababa and Muchaneta have become household names to a lot of viewers of the local television channel.The good old days of Mukadota , Parafini and Mutirowanza are back, but this time, the quality of the dramas is just out of this world and the talented casts always have new tricks to spring from their bags.A Mirazvo Productions in conjunction with ZTV, Muzita Rababa has engrossed viewers with the way that its storyline deals with the topical issue of churches that are sprouting every day and money generated from such churches while a bitter family feud is also at the centre of the plot. Muzita Rababa poses the question of whether churches should be at the centre of family inheritance and should be regarded as family property.When the church leader dies, his children are in line for the inheritance and the mother and a church pastor feel they have a right to the piece of cake.The series, which is featured every Monday, is laced with drama as the family feuds over who should run the church.The cast, which includes singer Mudiwa Mutandwa, Ammara Brown and Kudzai Musungo, among others, makes this story interesting.Directors Nick and Mike Zemura should be applauded for making sure that the drama keeps on running according to public demand.The directors of the series said a lot of effort was put into the production.Another sitcom, Muchaneta, is also causing a stir on ZTV and at every twist and turn, there is some high-charged action, drama and comedy which keeps one glued to their chair.Written and directed by Nick, Muchaneta as the term sitcom stands for, is a situational comedy revolving around real life issues which Zimbabweans can relate to.Its star-studded cast, which includes Kessia Masona who stars as Muchaneta, Tendai Garwe also known as Sokostina, Admire Kazhangandira aka Bhutisi, Mai Bhasikhoro, Eddington Hatitongwe and Rumbidzai Mapfumo makes the drama gripping as they are never short of pranks, tricks and survival tactics in this dog-eat-dog set up where cash is hard to come by.Watching the 13-series drama, one is tempted to think that the characters are talking about the person next door to you as it touches on real life situations.The producer, director and scriptwriter Nick said he was happy with the reception the drama was getting from viewers. Muchaneta is a situational comedy that exploits various social themes, from love to marriage and broken relationships. It is about a woman who challenges her son s marriage to a younger girl and pushes him to marry an older lady who later challenges her. It is about reversed roles in society, he said.On to DStv, Big Brother Naija (Nigeria) is back!It premi red last Sunday on channel 198 and is screened live, 24 /7 on all DStv packages.The good news is that locals will be able to join in the excitement as the most anticipated reality show in Africa, Big Brother Naija begins.For 11 weeks, we will witness the drama, action, comedy and perhaps a few tears as 12 total strangers get to live together in one house, with only one emerging winner of the grand prize of 25 million Naira and a brand new Kia Sorento.The show is hosted by Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, a former house-mate in the Big Brother Nigeria show back in 2006.The lawyer-turned-media-personality with his infectious laugh and charismatic persona ushered the house-mates into the Big Brother Naija house.It is, however, sad that Obi-Uchendu will take up the task of announcing the evictees week after week.Weekly highlights as well as the best of the live daily will be shown on Africa Magic Urban, Africa Magic Showcase and Africa Magic World.10 Things You Should Know About Big Brother NaijaMultiChoice is bringing back the Nigerian version of the hit reality TV series, Big Brother, after 10 years! So as we look forward to 11 weeks of undiluted entertainment, here are 10 things you should know about the upcoming Big Brother Naija reality show:1. The show is now referred to as Big Brother Naija2. The programme will run for 78 days starting 22 January 2017 with a two-hour, live, televised launch and end on 9 April 2017 with a two-hour, live, televised finale3. This will be the second instalment of the Big Brother franchise in Nigeria after 10 years4. It will air across the content on all DStv packages on channel 1985. There will be 12 house-mates in total6. A variety of Nigerian personalities will visit the Big Brother Naija house during the show s duration including musicians and performers. In addition, the show s presenter will be a Nigerian7. The voice of Biggie will be Nigerian8. Same rules apply &#8211; but there will be no shower hour!9. Winner of the Big Brother Naija takes it all! He or she will walk away with whopping prize money of 25 million Naira and a brand new KIA Sorento car10. PayPorte is the headline sponsor of Big Brother Naija.