Tawanda Marwizi Arts Correspondent It s a drizzly evening at Westlea shops when pint-sized Andy Muridzo takes to the stage playing his mbira with absolute finesse. The 24-year-old musician exudes confidence as he appears to be in a trance, serenading a full house at Club Veritas. The youngster appears not deterred by the once revered Suluman Chimbetu who played at Destiny Nite Club less that 100 metres away.Around 9pm, Club Veritas is already packed to the rafters with merry-makers dancing away the Saturday night in style. As bubbly as ever, the talented tunesmith is in high spirits as he musters` all his artistic verve.The crooner opens his act with the catchy track Vape Moyo sending the highly appreciative crowd into delirium. As if that was not enough he sampled song Tichambotenderera from his upcoming album prompting fans to whistle and ululate for an encore.In the wee hours of Sunday, Jah Prayzah made a surprise appearance on stage. They performed song Watora Mari much to the delight of the fans. Peter Moyo also joined the young crooner on stage giving merry-makers value for their money.Club Veritas management was impressed by Muridzo s performance so much sthat they pledged to host him every month. Muridzo s new manager, Gift Petro, said he was impressed by the high turnout at their shows. We are simply taking it forward and we are very happy that people came in their numbers to support us, he said. However, the situation was vastly different at Destiny Night Club that had a paltry crowd.Chimbetu took to the stage at around 11pm and belted out most of his popular hits. The Alice Mbewe hitmaker seemed undeterred by the low attendance belting out songs from his album Jamboree . The album is fast gaining ground with songs being played in most public places.Douglas Chimbetu later joined his brother on stage, giving the crowd something to cheer about.The Chimbetu camp insisted that there was no bad blood between them and Muridzo. These shows were planned in advance and it would have been unfair for us to cancel the gigs. Andy is like a brother to us and there are no hard feelings, he said.