Shepherd Chimururi Cool Lifestyle Correspondent While a lot is imagined about information technology and e-learning, very little is foreseen about the outcome thereof. Interestingly, the ministry of education has given more attention and value to the inclusion of computer education in schools from as early as the pre-reader ECD child. Students in nations like Nigeria and India are known to be developing mobile applications, computer software and more practical software projects, taking for example UC-Browser.Following the new syllabus and the inclusion of software that teach coding/or programming from as early as Grade Two, the nation is inevitably going to see a generation of web and application developers.With just an adherence to the syllabus and use of the recommended software, there arise need to have website development as a profession. Gone are the days when the only imagined-to-be great profession where being a Doctor or Pilot. Website and Application development is now defined as a future profession that Zimbabwe should value.Currently, the Zim-business community has begun to embrace the use of mobile applications and social networks platforms like Whatsapp.The children enrolling for ECD and primary school now are more ready and being prepared for coding and programming.The nation of Zimbabwe now has to regard website-development as a profession. The current syllabus has recommendations for software like code-academy, logo-designer, logo-kids; these application or programs nature children in programmers and thus their future has to be recognised and their professions defined.Many employers prefer prospective Web developers to hold a bachelor s degree in computer science or a related field. Coursework often includes programming, database management, mathematics, Web design and networking.Work experience accompanied by a professional certification may be an adequate substitute for formal education in some cases.Certification in current Web development systems and software may benefit an applicant, especially one without a bachelor s degree. Such certifications are available through continuing education institutions, software companies or professional associations.Microsoft, for example, offers the Microsoft Certified Professional Developer certification, which requires applicants to pass the Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist exam and have 2-3 years of relevant work experience.The World Organisation of Webmasters also offers three levels of certification related to Web developers, all of which include an exam that assesses varying levels of proficiency in programming, Web design, Web security, database management, servers and networking.Common entry-level job titles in Web development include Web designer, webmaster and graphic artist.Increased education and work experience can lead to advanced positions such as senior Web developer, designer and software designer.To become a web developer, one should usually earn a relevant bachelor s degree, though gaining a decent amount of work experience and obtaining professional certification is occasionally sufficient.The process of developing doctors practically begins from the primary level, a child indicates strength in sciences, at ordinary level, he/she then majors is science subjects, At Advanced Level, the same does sciences and enrols into a science degree.Developing a profession is such a process, at least in the Zimbabwe education system. When a student is asked what do you want to be when you grow up ? The closest answer points to the profession which the child has seen being respected and giving a better economic and social status. There is therefore need for the programmer s profession to be valued from now.If the education system and the Zimbabwe community is to encourage the child to learn more in the Information Technology (IT) field, then the professions coming out from IT expertise should be valued and pointed out. Many application are developed for example, Ecocash App, Banking Apps, WhatsApp, oral driving app, among other noble developments. The challenge is that these professions are still considered an out of Zimbabwe profession and ability. The Zimbabwe system has to value, acknowledge and support the Website and Application Development field, fostering children in perceiving programming as a profession.Students are very much fascinated by computer software, particularly e-learning software and other assistive technology. We only need to inspire them by valuing the developers of these applications. The nation Zimbabwe has a great future of we-developers.Shepherd Chimururi Executive Director Dzidzo Inhaka Audio Visual LearningMobile:+263 772 608 276 Tel: 04 749 302dzidzoinhaka@gmail.com ww.dzidzoinhaka.co.zw.