Elita Chikwati Senior Reporter&#8212;Government has warned of a looming outbreak of African armyworm in most parts of the country, as farmers battle to control another pest the fall armyworm that has wreaked havoc in seven provinces. African armyworm is a well known pest of maize and other cereal crops in Zimbabwe and the rest of the sub-Saharan region and shares the same family with the fall armyworm.Armyworm attacks crops such as maize, sorghum, millet, wheat, barley and pastures, leaving a trail of destruction.Its sudden appearance and extensive damage caused within a short space of time, as well as its rapid spread call for efficient early warning systems and information sharing. Ministry of Agriculture, Mechanisation and Irrigation Development department of Plant Protection and Institute chief entomologist Dr Godfrey Chikwenhere yesterday said an African armyworm outbreak was looming and it could happen any time when the rains stop. He said the department had recorded high numbers of African armyworm moths. We set traps and the catches for the African armyworm average between 40 and 50 moths per day, said Dr Chikwenhere. An average catch of 32 moths means there will be an outbreak and now we have high numbers. The outbreak can occur any time if the rains stop. Once we have a dry period we expect an outbreak. Dr Chikwenhere said the African armyworm was worse than the fall armyworm as it can wipe out the whole crop, especially when the maize is still young. The African armyworm is devastating, he said. Farmers should take the warning seriously and scout their crops, especially soon after the rains. They should also check for the pest in the pastures. We have recorded high numbers of moths, especially in Mashonaland Central areas of Mukumbura, Mt Darwin, Mazowe, Dotito, Bindura and Rushinga, among others. Some farmers are still planting and should be on the lookout for the pest. Meanwhile, lack of knowledge has hampered efforts by farmers to control fall armyworm, an official has said. Most farmers have reported that the pest is resisting the Carbaryl 85 Wettable Powder, while experts say they are not spraying correctly.Dr Chikwenhere said the department had distributed adequate chemicals and farmers were applying the chemical using knapsack sprayers.