BIRTHDAY BOY . . . Zimbabwe international defender Costa Nhamoinesu finds the funny side of the story after being messed up by his teammates as they celebrated his 31st birthday at the National Sports Stadium yesterday. Picture by Paul MundandiPaul Mundandi Sports Reporter COSTA Nhamoinesu has called for unity among all Zimbabweans for the Warriors to defy odds and make a big impression at the 2017 Nations Cup finals in Gabon. The gangly defender, who celebrated his 31st birthday yesterday, feels they can do wonders if they get the support of the entire nation. If you want to go fast go alone and if you want to go further go together, he said. When we go into the field, there will be eleven and the other seven will be on the bench. It is the millions of us who will be at home that matter for us to succeed. It must be one people, one sport and one nation. I am not the experienced defender, we also have Onismor (Bhasera) but what we need is collective effort when we are playing for the Warriors. Every person must play a part because we have quality in our team. I am thanking the Almighty God for his blessings because representing your nation is a great honour and everyone who dons the national team jersey must be proud of that and must give his all for us to get maximum points. I am very happy to be playing abroad and to be playing for the Warriors. I am very happy and morale in the camp is very high. I am blessed to have a great captain in Willard (Katsande) We also have a great coach, he is humble and understands all our concerns maybe simply because he once played football himself. He is a great father and we are blessed to have him together with all his technical bench. He said he continues to work very hard. We have a lot of coaches out there but what is important is what my coach tells me. I work very hard in training and we are training to improve and if training was not necessary we could have just met in Gabon on the 14th for our first game, he said. I am working on my weaknesses daily. We have very good midfielders and strikers and all we need to do is maintain a clean sheet On a good day, maybe the Lord will bless me, and I will score a goal. I have scored for the Warriors and I have scored in the UEFA Europa Cup. I was born in the ghetto and my success is inspirational to the ghetto youth. If they work hard, with the right attitude, everything will be possible. I am a Christian and the dreadlocks I wear is just fashion. I was born and bred in Chitungwiza. He played for Seke 1 High in Chitungwiza alongside Heavens Chinyama and Maset Zengeni.He has made nine appearances for the WarriorsCosta was spotted by an agent, while playing for Masvingo United, who sent him to Poland, where he began playing for 5th division amateur side KS Wisla Ustroniaka.In 2008, he was loaned to Zagbie Lubin where he became one of the most highly-rated left-backs in the Polish top-flight league where he was also a target of some racist fans.In 2013, he signed a deal with Czech giants Sparta Prague where he still plays.He had also received offers from Russia, Germany and Turkey.