Charma GalTawanda Marwizi Arts Correspondent Motswana sensation Magdeline Lesolebe, popularly known as Charma Gal, is in the country seeking a collaboration with Oliver Mtukudzi. Charma, who is popular for her Chika dances and Culture Spears group, visited Pakare Paye Arts Centre in Norton last week to meet the superstar. Sources said she recorded another duet with Jah Prayzah, which will become their second joint project after Dali Wami . She is in the country for talks with Oliver Mtukudzi but she also took the opportunity to record a duet with Jah Prayzah, he said. This publication tracked down the musician who declined to shed more light on the matter. I am in Zimbabwe for a meeting with Oliver Mtukudzi and for now I cannot say much. Yes, we had a recording with Jah Prayzah yesterday but I will only furnish you with the details when the song is complete, she said.She said it was her wish to have duets with Zimbabwean female musicians but expressed disappointment that they had snubbed her. I once talked to Fungisai (Zvakavapano-Mashavave) and Sandra Ndebele, but the deals failed to materialise. So I decided to have another collaboration with Jah Prayzah and a new project with Oliver Mtukudzi, said the vivacious singer.She said her growing fan base in Zimbabwe inspired her to record songs with local artistes. Zimbabwe is a good country and that explains why I decided to do a song in Shona to show how I love its people, she said.She hailed Zimbabwean artistes for their immense talent and professionalism. When I came for Jah Prayzah s album launch some years back, I discovered that the country has got talent and it is encouraging as it opens doors for us to work with them, said Charma.She also encouraged artistes to remain united in entertaining their fans. We should not act like politicians. In fact, politicians appear to fight in public yet they work together in the background and fool the people into fighting. As musicians, if we are to fight let us have battles on stage through our music. 