Abigail Mawonde Herald Correspondent&#8212;HEAVY rains pounding the country have caused the death of more than 33 people and destroyed 600 homes and 23 schools in the last three months. The deaths were mainly through drowning and lightning. In its latest rainfall incidences report ending December 31, 2016, the Civil Protection Unit (CPU) said many people had been left homeless.In Chiredzi District last month six people drowned after a truck they were travelling in was swept away by a flooded river while elsewhere lightning struck three houses and injured eight.The report also indicated that 31 people drowned as rivers flooded during the period. Thirty one people reportedly drowned from October to November this season, reads the report. Most of the people who drowned were swept away while attempting to cross flooded rivers. For example, on December 13, 2016 in Chiredzi District, six people were reported missing after a truck they were travelling on was swept away. Some of the bodies were later retrieved by the Zimbabwe Republic Police Sub-Aqua Unit. The CPU said the destruction of schools and homes left scores of schoolchildren and families stranded.Reported incidents during the period showed that 12 households were destroyed in Bulilima District in Matabeleland South Province, six in Mangwe in the same province, seven in Mutasa, eight in Buhera, 16 in Mutare (all in Manicaland) and 31 in Guruve in Mashonaland Central.At least 23 schools in different provinces were also destroyed.The CPU said that 10 districts have so far been affected by flash flooding.The districts are Binga, Nkayi and Hwange in Matabeleland North Province, Bulilima and Mangwe in Matabeleland South, Guruve and Mt Darwin in Mashonaland Central and Mutasa, Mutare and Buhera in Manicaland.The CPU said a total of 621 households suffered serious damages due to the rains and urged people to stay alert of all possible hazards associated with the rainy season. Generally, the prospects of this rainfall season are expected to be brighter for 2016/17, unlike the El Nino ravaged 2015/16 season, the CPU said. Food supplies, water and pastures are expected to improve with the rains. While this may be the case, we all need to be acutely aware of hazards related to the rainy season. The negative impacts of the season to date include severe hailstorms, thunderstorms and flash flooding affecting both rural and some urban areas. The CPU said it had since assisted victims of the adverse weather. The Civil Protection structures at national and sub-national levels with support from humanitarian stakeholders have delivered relief to affected families, it said. The relief is in the form of tents and tarpaulins, food items, utensils, clothing, blankets and shoes. Zimbabwe experienced its worst floods in 2000 when it was hit by Cyclone Eline, which resulted in 136 deaths.At least 59 184 houses and huts were destroyed, 14 999 toilets carved in, 538 schools and 54 clinics were damaged, while 230 dams burst and 20 000 head of livestock died.In 2003, the country was hit by Cyclone Japhet which killed seven people and swept away bridges and other infrastructure.Floods regularly cause damage in Zimbabwe s low lying areas like Muzarabani, Tshotsholo and the Lowveld.