BIG BOYS . . . Some of the Vodacom Blue Bulls players who are expected to make the trip to Harare today for Saturday s rugby jamboree at the National Sports StadiumEddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter TOP South African rugby franchise Vodacom Blue Bulls are expected in the country this afternoon with a full strength squad for what promises to be an exciting Super Rugby treat for the Zimbabwe fans at the National Sports Stadium this Saturday. Blue Bulls will be the first team to arrive for a rugby fiesta featuring four of South Africa s biggest franchises that also include DHL Stormers, Emirates Lions and Toyota Cheetahs.The Pretoria Super Rugby franchise, who were impressed by a similar pre-season tour when they visited Zimbabwe for the first time last year, have announced they are travelling with a full house after announcing a 39-member touring squad led by coach Nollis Marais.Bulls will face South Africa overall Conference winners Emirates Lions in what is expected to be an interesting lunch time clash while the Toyota Cheetahs against DHL Stormers showdown will bring the curtain down on the fiesta with the second match of the day.One of the event organisers from Kyros Sport Management Nyasha Muchochomi yesterday said excitement was building up ahead of the tourney with the Bulls confirmed to touch down at the Harare International Airport around midday while the other three participants are scheduled for the same time tomorrow. We are headed for an exciting weekend of Super Rugby for the local fans who normally may not get the opportunity to watch live their stars playing. So they are coming here and Bulls have confirmed they are arriving tomorrow (today) and the other three on Friday. We are grateful to the support that we have received from the Ministry of Sports and Recreation, the South African Embassy and the Zimbabwe Rugby Union. Later in the afternoon the Bulls players are expected to have a meet the fans session at Westgate and Pomona. They have also scheduled a coaching clinic at Heritage Academy, said Muchochomi.The Super Rugby teams are using the tour as part of their pre-season preparations ahead of a hectic Super Rugby season starting in a few weeks time. Bulls junior Springbok flyer Warrick Gelant is set to make his return from injury in Harare along with Dries Swanepoel.The side is also travelling with their new acquisitions, who include Springbok lock Lodewyk de Jager, props Jacobie Adriaanse and Conraad van Vuuren, hooker Edgar Marutlulle, loose forward Shaun Adendorf, utility back Johnny K tze and wing Sibahle Maxwane.Springboks Handr Pollard and Jesse Kriel are also travelling to Harare but are unlikely to make an appearance. Pollard missed the 2016 season due to knee and shoulder injuries. Pollard was part of the Bulls squad that toured Zimbabwe last year, although he didn t feature in his team s high-profile pre-season friendly against the Toyota Cheetahs at the National Sports Stadium.The match was watched by an appreciative crowd of about 18 000 fans who braved the bad weather to witness the titanic clash which was won by Cheetahs 28-10. But Lock Jason Jenkins (shoulder) and Jan Serfontein (back) will not be making the trip to Zimbabwe.Taking from last year s programme, which was described as a huge success by the tourists, the franchises are set to proceed to the Victoria Falls on Sunday where they are set to take bonding and team building to another level.They have also lined up a caching clinic at the Harare Sports Club on Sunday and another at Chinotimba High in Victoria Falls. The Bulls, who this week, unveiled their new kits for the season, said on their Facebook page that they are excited with the pre-season tour. The Boys in blue will be taking on their Gauteng neighbours, the Emirates Lions, in what is expected to be another enthralling and exciting encounter between these franchises on Saturday 28 January. The Vodacom Bulls would like to extend a special word of gratitude to the promoters and the fans in Zimbabwe, for the support shown thus far, this being the second consecutive year that the Bulls have made the trip across the border. The organisers, however, will be praying for good weather on the day. Local schools ruby giants Prince Edward Tigers will get the programme underway with a date against Kyle College Vikings at 10am and then the second appetizer contest pitting Mutare against XP Horns.Bulls Super Rugby touring squad: 1. Lizo Gboka, 2. Jaco Visagie, 3. Coenraad van Vuuren, 4. Ruben van Heerden, 5. Abongile Nonkontwana, 6. Nic de Jager, 7. Hendre Stassen, 8. Renaldo Botma, 9. Ivan van Zyl, 10. Tony Jantjies , 11. Jt Jackson, 12. Johnny Kotze, 13. Rabs Maxwane, 14. Jade Stigling, 15. Manie Libbok, 16. Corniel Els, 17. Pierre Schoeman, 18. Rg Snyman, 19. Shaun Adendorff, 20. Andre Warner, 21. Francois Brummer, 22. Franco Naude, 23 Edgar Marutlulle, 24 John-Roy Jenkins, 25 Trevor Nyakane, 26 Lood de Jager, 27 Adriaan Strauss, 28 Jacques Potgieter, 29 Hanro Liebenberg, 30 Rudi Paige, 31. Handre Pollard, 32. Jacobie Adriaanse , 33. Burger Odendaal, 34. Dries Swanepoel, 35. Jamba Ulengo, 36. Jesse Kriel, 37. Warrick Gelant, 38. Tian Schoeman, 39. Luther Obi.