Terence Mapuka &#8212; There is a topic which is hardly spoken off when it comes to teenage matters. In our African culture it is taboo to even think about it concerning teenagers. Yet if we follow what the world says is the greatest love story, involving teenagers, Romeo and Juliet. Some would say exactly why teens should not fall in love looking what happened to Romeo and Juliet at the end.It was a tragic.Love is such a wonderful thing. Love is portrayed in different forms at every stage of growth. The infant will show it by clinging to the mother with joy. The teenagers are at a stage that their inquisitive mind is exploring other types of love. It is without a doubt that this stage comes with the love we are speaking of today.There is no denying that the feelings of love are there during teenage years. Society however says that teenagers should not respond to those feelings. Love like every other feeling can be controlled by the individual. What society would be doing is trying to warn the teenagers on the complications of getting involved with these feelings at a tender age.Most have been there before and have seen what happened to them or their loved ones. However at the end of the day it is the teen with the final decision. So many important developments are happening to you and at that stage you can delay reacting to the feelings of love, definitely to your advantage. However should there be a need to respond then you have to make sure you are being responsible in whatever you are doing.You have to understand what love is and what it is not.You also have to understand how best to respond to love. Just like anything else happening in your life it is important that you discuss love with your parents.It can be scaring but it is important. Why? Because so many things can go wrong with love you do not want it to come out like that. Parents can be your best shoulder to cry on if you do it right or they can be the worst nightmare if you do it otherwise.Love should not take away your power to say no. Love is not forceful, it should not make you feel uncomfortable and it should not be a secret. Love works better when shared by those in a relationship and those closer to you.Something is always wrong when it is a secret. Also remember sex is not love and love is not sex. Understanding love gives you a better standing when it knocks on your door.Terence is with zwTEENS an organisation which deals with teens and issues affecting them. You can reach zwTEENS on 0774599446 tel:07720459209446, WhatsApp 0772128170 tel:07720212208170, terence@zwteens.com mailto:terence@zwteens.com or visit their website www.zwteens.comhttp://www.zwteens.com 