Where there is no vision, the people perish. . . Proverbs 29:18Vision is a gift from God. When God gave vision to you, it was given to a certain part of your body which is not your eye. Vision is never found in your eye. What you find in your eye is sight, you do not find your vision in your sight. If we are saying that vision is a gift it means there is a giver who gives vision. There is also a receiver who receives a vision from the giver who is God. A visionary technically becomes a receiver, you cannot be a visionary if you are not a good receiver. If you want to be a good visionary be a good receiver. You cannot say to people that you have a vision unless it is given to you.What makes vision very important is the fact that in its absence people die, according to the scripture of the Bible we have read. Without vision the people perish; do they really perish if they have hospitals, without vision? They will still perish. Do they perish if they have a good government, without a vision? They will still perish. Which means vision is a sustainer of life. If you want to live long get a vision.People do not enjoy dying, they do everything just to stop themselves from dying, which is a sign that no one is interested in dying. We do all this yet we remain in places where there is no vision and eventually we die.Any visionless environment is a destructive environment. There can be opportunities in a place but without a vision in that place people still perish.The reason why you are dying and everything around you is because you and everything you have cannot survive in the absence of a vision. You need a vision for your own survival. Your marriage requires a vision for its survival, for without a vision people perish.We can talk of the presence of God in a place but understand also that God says my people perish for lack of knowledge .God still calls them His people, which means they can be born again and have received God but not having knowledge they still perish. Many things can still kill you in the presence of God, like ignorance. Lack of revelation can also kill you in the presence of God. God s people will not survive just based on their relationship with God, they will survive based on their relationship with knowledge.The main reason why people are disappointed is because they set very high expectations and yet nothing is done to achieve such expectations. Very high expectations and nothing is done practically to reach that level.Do you really want to know where you are wrong? We always expect a leader to have a vision; that is our expectation for a leader to have a revelation but it is wrong.What we should expect is a man who has a vision to be the leader. Leadership does not qualify one for a vision, it is the vision that qualifies you for leadership. You lead because you see.It is a vision that qualifies you for a responsibility. We do not give you a responsibility to qualify you for a vision. Which means we do not choose a person before he is chosen by the vision.If you are choosing a person for a position you do not go for the person but a vision within the person because it is a vision that qualifies a person for a responsibility. Before a person can be chosen we have to investigate previous achievements. Those achievements are traces of visions.You do not get a vision because you are now the husband or the father of the house. Becoming the father of the house does not give you access to vision.It is vision that gives you access to fatherhood. You must have vision of becoming a father, it is that vision that qualifies you for the position. You cannot make money and then have a vision of making money, have a vision before making money. That vision will then qualify you for money.Have you ever looked at the leadership that we have in companies and churches? There are times you sit down and you wonder what really made some of these people leaders. In every environment lack of vision should disqualify a person from any leadership position.If you are to become a leader and you do not have a vision, you will have to make decisions based on lack of vision. You will have to consult the vision that you do not have, you will have to come up with something that is not there.Vision is of great importance in your life and it is worth pursuing. You should not go to bed before you have a vision. Where there is no vision the people perish , where refers to a place which means God is not just talking about people without vision.He is also talking of a place where there is no vision. Any place where there is no vision, the people present in that place will perish. Whether it is within a house environment, a community environment, a village environment or a national environment, where vision is not, the citizens of that environment will have to experience what the Bible calls perish . The place without a vision can cause you, your family and your company to perish.In an environment without a vision you can have a vision, you can decide to marry in that environment. You can have your marriage in a visionless environment which is capable of killing your marriage. You can start a business because you feel like you have a vision of starting a business.Pursuing your vision in a visionless country, the visionless environment of that country will suffocate your little vision because national visions supersede individual visions. That is the reason why governments have to monitor your companies because it is above little visions. It supervises every other vision.Your being broke today might not be your own personal demon, it can be a national demon. It might not be you in need of deliverance but the entire nation. You might have taken over demons that do not belong to you. You have placed curses upon yourself that were never given to you.There might be totally nothing wrong with you, nothing missing in your business idea but there is a force in the atmosphere suppressing your energy and killing your vision.This message helps you to know demons that are not yours and you do not need to keep on blaming yourself.If you find yourself in a place where there is no vision you perish. The poverty you have might not be you, it could be where you are. That is why there is always need for deliverance of the place where you are. Imagine a delivered person in a possessed territory, you will act possessed.You will do business like you have a demon. Everything you do will be contrary to progress. Your biggest problem right now could be the place where you are.https://www.facebook.com/prophetEMakandiwahttps://twitter.com/prmakandiwahttps://www.instagram.com/emmanuelmakandiwa/Helpline : +263 4 339 341info@emmanuelmakandiwa.com