BABA HARARETawanda Matanhire Arts Reporter &#8212; Jah Prayzah s lead guitarist Braveman Chizvino formerly handed his resignation letter to his former boss on Wednesday afternoon amid speculation that more Third Generation band members could throw in the towel, stripping the outfit of key instrumentalists. Chizvino, who is well known as Baba Harare, announced his intention to leave the band earlier this week.Baba Harare said the move was prompted by the need to start his own band in fulfilment of his long term plans. I ve always had plans to do my own things and was waiting to end the year on a good note with Jah Prayzah. It is time for me to venture into my own things now, he said. I don t have any beef with Jah Prayzah and in the event that he needs me we can always communicate and work, he added. I think we had a good time there, we separated on good books, he added.The dread-locked guitarist also hinted that his upcoming 12-track album Advance KuSugar had a different feel and style from what he spent much of his time doing with Third Generation. I have my different feel and style from Jah Prayzah. It s not a secret my new album is called Advance KuSugar and I will be launching it on January 26, Baba Harare said.He said he recorded the album at one of the best studios in Zimbabwe, Maselo Productions. He was very confident that his music will endear him with music fans.Jah Prayzah s manager Keen Mushapaidze confirmed receiving his resignation letter, adding that the group wished him well. Yes Baba Harare formerly handed his resignation letter, Mushapaidze confirmed. There is always time for everything and when someone has grown and feels that they are good enough to do their own thing, it is a good thing. We wish him well in whatever he will be doing, Mushapaidze said.Mushapaidze, however, said it would be difficult for them to fill the void because Baba Harare had risen to become a big name in the band. It will of course be difficult to find someone who will fill his place in the same way because talent cannot be duplicated and Baba Harare was now a big name for the fans but we hope whoever is going to fill his place will also give something different in his own right which fans will get to appreciate, Mushapaidze said.There is speculation that more 3rd Generation members will soon be leaving Jah Prayzah s band for several reasons stripping the Watora Mari hit-maker of the key instrumentalists.