Paul Mundandi: Sports ReporterZIMBABWE S representatives in the CAF Confederation Cup Ngezi Platinum Stars will be in Mozambique this week as part of their preparations for their maiden dance with football at this level. They are scheduled to leave for Mozambique tomorrow for an international friendly match against Chingale Football Club. Chingale, who are based in Tete province, play in the Mozambican Premiership.Ngezi are eager to make a mark in CAF Confederation Cup and yesterday officially unveiled Gift Umbro Muzadzi as their goalkeepers coach.Club chairman Jeremiah Gasitene said yesterday that they would use the tour to Mozambique to prepare for their Confederation Cup adventure in which they will face Pamplemousse of Mauritius for the first leg away on the weekend of February 10-12. We want to give our boys all the experience that is needed in the tournament and as a new team we want them to have a feeling of what it means to play away. We will be travelling to Tete and it s not all about winning but preparing for the safari. We would like to give the technical team and the players all the support they need and we keep praying that we are going to Africa to compete and not to make up numbers, said Gasitene.The club s former Warriors defender Partson Jaure believes his experience with the African game will be vital for the newboys.Jaure has previously played in the Champions League with Dynamos. We are working very hard and it s good that we will be away in Mauritius for our first match. As a defender all I want is to avoid conceding, said Jaure. I am also trying my best to help the youngsters. We have to keep possession and we have to be united. Playing as a team is very vital. I am happy that I have worked with Ndiraya (Tonderai) at Dynamos and I know what he wants. We understand each other very well and that alone will also help the team. Most of the guys here were at Dynamos. I have played with them and blending with the likes of captain Chakoroma (Liberty) and other players has helped us achieve positive results. Jaure also revealed that he was enjoying life in Ngezi which has a mining and rural set-up. Ngezi Platinum Stars will this morning unveil their team for 2017, including the new arrivals, at Baobab before they leave for Mozambique.The club brought on board Mclive Phiri from Tsholotsho, Bulawayo City captain Xolisani Moyo, Qadr Amini, Edgar Mhungu, Godknows Murwira and Dominic Mukandi.The team is still chasing the signature of ZPC Kariba keeper Takabva Mawaya who is expected to seal his move with Ngezi today.Ngezi offloaded James Marufu, Innocent Sokosi, Daniel Kamunhenga, Marvelous Emmanuel, Zivanai Mhanda, Talent Chamboko and Kumbirai Kapikinyu.