Takudzwa Matambura : Court ReporterThe trial of a suspected Command Agriculture abuser, who allegedly stole 33,6 tonnes of fertiliser and 30 litres of herbicides intended to benefit farmers in Mashonaland West, was on Tuesday deferred to February 7. It was postponed to enable police finalise investigations. Panganai Marunga (39), who is on $200 bail, appeared before Harare magistrate Ms Rumbidzai Mugwagwa facing fraud charges. His three accomplices have already appeared in court on similar allegations.Prosecuting, Ms Audrey Chogumaira told the court that the Ministry of Agriculture, Mechanisation and Irrigation Development initiated the Command Agriculture Programme to ensure food sufficiency in the country.Targeted farmers in Makonde District in Mashonaland West were advised to come together in order for them to access Command Agriculture inputs.It is alleged that 51 farmers in that district came together and formed a group, which they named Chimurenga. On December 5 last year, the group was instructed by Agritex Chinhoyi to collect 33,6 tonnes of Compound D fertiliser and Atrazin herbicides from Harare.The court heard that four days later, Christopher Manuwere, Petros Mutenga and the group s secretary Christopher Tadzimirwa, went to Windmill in Harare to collect the farming inputs.The fertiliser was worth $16 800. The trio sought to hire a truck and was referred to Tafirenyika Mariga, who allegedly met Manuwere at Windmill and charged them $650 for the trip to Shubhara Farm in Makonde.A deposit of $400 was paid.The balance of $250 was to be paid upon delivery. Manuwere was issued with a delivery note indicating the details of the driver.In connivance with Hilda Masamba, Mariga contacted Manuwere and advised him to wait for them at Westgate roundabout along the Harare-Chirundu Highway, where he would pick him up on their way to Makonde.It is alleged that Mariga, Masamba and the truck driver left Windmill with the loaded truck. Mariga later sent $14 to Manuwere via EcoCash and ordered him to hire a taxi.He advised him that he had gone to Banket along the same route and the truck was on its way. In the meantime, Mariga and his accomplices diverted the truck to Murehwa, where the consignment was sold.Mariga allegedly sold the fertiliser.Tadzimirwa waited for the truck along the Harare-Chirundu Road, but to no avail. He reported the matter to the police on December 10. About $17 350 was lost.