Adama BarrowDAKAR. Gambia s new president Adama Barrow says the country s economy is top priority when he returns to Banjul, as he promises a new cabinet and creation of new jobs in a road map to the country s recovery. President Barrow is due to return to Gambia today, a senior aide told Reuters. He is leaving tomorrow and will arrive in Banjul at around 4pm, said Amie BojangPresident Barrow said: When we return to Banjul, I intend to set up my office and as we have opened an expatriate bank, we will receive our technicians so that we can start working. We are in consultations and talks with ECOWAS. Once the situation is calm in Banjul, we will be back as soon as possible. He also promised to reactivate the 43-year-old Sino-Gambian relations, which established official diplomatic ties in 1974. China has a very long-standing relationship with The Gambia, especially during the First Republic. The Chinese ambassador came to see me. We have discussed at length and I believe there will be a lot of trade between The Gambia and China. The Gambia is back, we will be open to the world. The new Gambian leader also faces tough tasks ahead, among them stabilising the nation and reconciling the population s desire for justice for alleged abuses committed by the former regime while maintaining peace.Meanwhile, Equatorial Guinea on Tuesday confirmed the presence of former Gambian leader Yahya Jammeh in the west African country, where he had been offered refuge as a political exile .President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo had convinced Jammeh to avoid any situation of armed confrontation , government spokesperson Eugenio Nze Obiang said.The news came on the same day it was confirmed that the ex-leader had struck a deal with president Barrow to keep a fleet of luxury cars in exchange for leaving the country on Saturday for exile in Equatorial Guinea.An airport source who saw the cargo being prepared on Saturday night when Jammeh flew out of the country claimed that two Rolls Royces and one (Mercedes) Benz were loaded onto a Chadian cargo plane, while 10 others await shipment. The government was fully prepared and supportive of ex-president Jammeh to leave and as a result they found it is better to leave with all his properties, his spokesperson said. Africa News/AFP/HR.