Philip ChiyangwaPaul Mundandi Sports Reporter&#8212;DYNAMOS have broken ranks with some of the Premiership clubs battling ZIFA president Philip Chiyangwa by saying they are happy with how he is leading domestic football. Bernard Marriot, the Dynamos board chairman, says Chiyangwa has surprised even his critics with the way he has executed his duties as ZIFA boss. We learnt with great pride of your victory to become the president of COSAFA, Marriot said. The Dynamos Football Club board, executive, technical team, players and our supporters would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your deserved victory. We are proud of you as Dynamos and Zimbabweans in general. Your victory, Mr president, is not for the soccer fans alone, but for each and every Zimbabwean. We wish you a very successful term of office and with your visionary leadership, we are assured that Southern Africa is going to be a powerhouse in as far as the game of football is concerned. Marriot said Chiyangwa was showing better leadership qualities than many of those who led ZIFA in the past. He has already shown it by the qualification (for AFCON), which was managed with a game to spare, said Marriot. I can see the Warriors going places despite the fact that we are in the Group of Death. A number of people did not have faith in him but I know what the man is capable of doing. I am fully behind him and the Warriors. Marriot also said the Dynamos board were in full support of the resolution passed by the ZIFA Congress, where the relegation and promotion issue was resolved last weekend.Meanwhile, DeMbare are likely to retain Lloyd Mutasa as their head coach.The country s biggest football club will hold their annual general meeting next week, where the team s leadership will review the performance of their technical team.Mutasa will be conducting trials at Motor Action Sports Club on Monday, where he is expected to select a number of players who could make the grade for the team. We are likely to retain Mutasa because we have not seen anything bad that he did last season, said a DeMbare leadership source. We are on a rebuilding exercise and we could win the league this season. DeMbare believe Mutasa needs the same support that CAPS United gave to their own son, Lloyd Chitembwe, despite reservations from some fans.Chitembwe delivered the league title last season and was named the Premiership s Coach of the Year for 2016.Makepekepe had not won the league championship for 11 years. Our big rivals CAPS United provided us with a template that if you can stick with your man and support him, you can win big things and there is need for patience on our front. Lloyd took a team that was low on morale after that disastrous affair with Paulo Silva and he did well to take us into fifth place at the end of the season. If you look at the way we played against CAPS United, save for those final few minutes, you can see that we can do some great things together. 