Ellina Mhlanga: Sports ReporterFORMER International Association of Ultra-runners 50km World Championships winner Collen Makaza is dreaming big as he eyes top spot at the Two Oceans Ultra marathon in April. Makaza, who came second behind fellow Zimbabwean Mike Fokorani last year, has made it clear he is going for the top spot when he competes in the race on April 15. This year s Two Oceans is my race. I must be the champion of the race. I have come second twice, third twice and fourth twice. I just want to win because this is the year I am retiring from Two Oceans to fully concentrate on the Comrades Marathon, said Makaza.Makaza has over the years proved to be one of the best long-distance runners in the country, winning the IAU 50KM World Championships twice in 2010 and in 2014. He came third at the same event last November in Doha, Qatar. I will be turning 37 on the 25th of May, so at 38 my muscles are mature enough to go for a longer race, the Comrades. I am looking at few years of competing in the Comrades. But this year, it is my year to win Two Oceans. For now I am at the second stage of my preparations for the race, where I have a lot to work in terms of loading and running long distances. I have been running 40km as my training in the past weeks and on Saturday I am going for 50km and then 60km the following week, up until the 2nd of March. After that I will be slowing down and reduce the distances to focus more on speed, said Makaza.The 36-year-old took part in the Harare provincial cross-country meet over the weekend as part of his preparations ahead of the ultra-marathon in April.The provincial competition attracted some of the country s top middle and long-distance runners with Canisious Nyamutsita winning the senior men s 10km race. Patience Murove came first in the senior women s 8km event.The junior men also took part in the 8km race and Lazarus Mhlanga was the first to cross the finish line. The Harare Athletics Board was using the event to select their team for the National Cross-country meet scheduled for next month in Bulawayo.