Arts Correspondent &#8212; Gweru-based reggae roots singer Joe Wailer, popularly known as Uncle Joe, is in the studio finalising his sixth album that urges Zimbabweans to embrace peace, love and unity. The eight-track album titled The Solution is meant to remind people that living in harmony is the beginning of good things for any society and the nation at large. I wrote songs on the album during the violent demonstrations that were happening in the country last year when pressure groups sought to air their grievances in ways that disturbed peace. So the title The Solution basically urges Zimbabweans to be united and be peaceful all the times even when there are differences in opinion, said Joe Wailer.The artiste who draws inspiration from Jamaican based reggae legend Joseph Hill, said his album expected in two weeks time, will tackle issues that were in the heart of Hill. Reggae is spiritual music and we cannot run away from issues that were popularised by greats such as Joseph Hill. Zimbabwe needs to be peaceful because it has that history. We should keep the spirit for the betterment of our country, he said.Joe Wailer who rose to stardom through hits like Chant Down Babylon , which advocates for equality and peace, said the coming album will send a messages of peace ahead of the 2018 elections. Campaigning for the 2018 elections must be peaceful and this is part of the message that we are sending in the new album. We must also put God ahead of everything and know that he will make our destiny very beautiful, he said.Joe Wailer grew up in Kwekwe where he did his education at Chiedza Primary School and Manunure High School. His musical journey started in Primary School where he was a member of the school choir.Whilst in High school Joe Wailer started listening to reggae music from the Legendary Bob Marley and Joseph Hill. In 2004 Joe Wailer recorded his first studio album entitled, Beautiful Zimbabwe , which featured hit songs, Judgement Day and the title track.His other albums came periodically over the past years and The Solution is his sixth release.