SWANSEA. Arsene Wenger has admitted his own future WILL dictate whether Mesut Ozil signs a new contract at English Premiership soccer side Arsenal. Ozil gave an interview in Germany this week in which he said he wants to wait to see if Wenger will stay before committing himself to a new contract. Gunners boss Wenger insisted it was not the only factor in Ozil s decision but made it clear the two are very closely linked. Arsenal midfielder Ozil and Alexis Sanchez are both currently locked in a contract stalemate at the Emirates as they only have 18 months left on their current deals.Wenger, who is being offered a new two-year contract to stay, said: He would like to know what happens on the managerial front of course, but I don t think that s the main part of his decision. I think it s part of it but it s not the only thing. There are many other ingredients in every negotiation. Hopefully we will find a conclusion with him very quickly. Wenger did not want to discuss his own future or whether Ozil would have to lower his demands as the German World Cup winner wants around 250 000-a-week. No, I have nothing to add to that at the moment, said Wenger on his own future. I am completely focused on us getting back to the top and to work very hard in every single game and prepare well. I do not want to go too much into detail on that (Ozil demands). Because that can quickly be interpreted in the wrong way. We have to keep that as quiet as possible and try to find an agreement and at the end of the day, as well, respect our line of conduct that we always have. Wenger also laughed off suggestions they had made a bid for Torino s Andrea Belotti after reports in Italy claimed they made a 56m bid. That s what you call today fake news , said Wenger borrowing a line from Donald Trump.Meanwhile, Arsenal duo Hector Bellerin and Francis Coquelin will miss today s English Premier League clash with Swansea, according to manager Wenger.But Ozil will return to the Arsenal squad for today s game with Swansea, boss Wenger has confirmed.The Germany international has missed the last three games because of flu. AFP