Arthur Marara Motivation&#8212;In the last instalment of this column I talked about the Second Discipline of Success; Positive Focus. Grab a copy of last week edition, or visit www.herald.co.zw and search my name for previous articles on the Disciplines of Success. I have dedicated these articles on what I call the 10 Disciplines of Success . If you master, and obey the laws of success, you will be successful. Successful habits develop a successful life. This is why I am always saying that there is nothing complicated about success; anyone can be successful if they want to be. You can be degreed in any field, but if you do not follow the laws of success, you will not be successful.The priority of focusWhen you master the discipline of focus, you will remain clear on what you really want. This pushes you to move towards your goals with vigour, vitality and determination. Focus inspires energy in you as you move towards your goals. Focus accelerates the pace at which you do things, and by so doing you do more.Focus enables you to achieve your most important goals. If you are in business, focus brings you more revenue.Focusing inspires confidence, and unleashes you to discover your full potential. Focusing inspires positivity in terms of your thinking and helps you attain your goals.With all the benefits of focus, why are you not focused? 2017 is knocking, why not develop the Discipline of Focus and apply it in your personal life, and in your business.Focus on taking actionIf you are waiting for everything to be fine you will never achieve anything in life. Champions are willing to take risks in the direction of their future.The mistake people make is to believe that there will come a time when an announcement will be made that everything is now fair, you can now start living your dreams.Never! That will never happen. Instead of waiting for the situation to improve, work on improving yourself. Instead of waiting for things to change, start changing you.The moment you focus on developing you, is the moment that you also start seeing positive change in your life. Take action in the direction of goals. No advice on success will ever work until and unless you take action.Focus on your area of strengthYou can never be good at everything, but you can be very good at something. If you are going to get maximum results, you need to identify that goal/area which when you put your energy and your focus, will give you the best results.If you want to derail a person with a dream, give that person another dream. It s very easy for people to lose focus and apply their minds and attention to whatever that comes up. What you focus on grows, and what you neglect dies.The next big challenge for many people is we are at a total loss as to our areas of strength. That s why many people are living mediocre lives, we do not know who we are, and the scary part in other cases is many people do not even care to discover their areas of strength. You cannot exploit what you do not know! You cannot focus effectively on what you do not know!Focus on possibility If you focus on the possible when you experience difficult situations, YOU CAN positively change your outlook, reduce your stress, and concentrate on achieving things that otherwise may not have been possible. (Catherine Pulsifer).Instead of focusing on what you cannot do, focus on what you can do. This is where many people miss it in life. We discourage ourselves consistently, by concentrating on what we cannot control, ignoring what we can control.I agree with Anne Wilson Schaef who once said that, A negative focus can result in our entirely missing the possibilities placed in our path. Remember what you focus on grows, and what you neglect dies. There are several possibilities around you, focus you will see them.The story of Nyaradzo GroupYou might have encountered a bus, and/or a hearse with an inscription, sahwira mukuru along the highway. Growing up we used to know nyaradzo as a memorial service for the deceased, but within 15 years of coming into the market, Nyaradzo now refers to one of the leading funeral assurance and services provider, Nyaradzo.One of the things that have exercised my mind is, we are in the same economy where some people are whimpering, closing shop and yet Sahwira Mukuru is even growing and has now even ventured into life assurance.The mistake people make is to think it s a given because of the nature of the industry, funeral! This is of course false. Their business is like any other business; service provision, and people have a choice on which provider to use.Nyaradzo s business is never dead people, but living people. It is living people who pay subscriptions/premiums, and upgrade or downgrade their insurance policies. Furthermore, it is not the only company that is offering funeral products. There are in fact several other players, some of which are way much older than it. Their secret of success is the second Discipline of Success; POSITIVE FOCUS.Focus on growthThe best time to grow is in times of crisis. This is the very thing that I am always speaking on to business. If there is no crisis there is no business. If there are no problems, there is no success. This is the right time to work and grow you.Successful people do not wait for the environment to be perfect, they focus on what they want to achieve and start to move. Success is not measured by what you do in times of calm, but in times of crisis.Many organisations lose focus, and just look at the economic climate and not the opportunities in the same climate. Nyaradzo is a good example of a company that decided to FOCUS.They focused on service, ability to meet the needs of clients, excellence, drive, determination are some of the key attributes for the success.Focus on innovationOne other critical key in the success of the group is focus on innovation. Nyaradzo s perception of death is different from what most people do. Their philosophy is couched as follows, The Nyaradzo story is one of dreams, faith and hope . . .It is a story of hope. Some would ask, is there any hope in death? Yes there is for funeral arrangements are never done for the dead because they won t see or appreciate it.Funeral arrangements are done for the living and when done properly, they are a source of hope . When your philosophy speaks to life, it also forces you to focus on lively service in whatever you do.How innovative are you as a person and as an organisation? What new solutions did you develop in your organisation and in your personal life?I will continue on this series next week. Do not miss the next edition of The Business Herald. May I take this opportunity to wish you a prosperous 2017?Let s walk together this journey of inspiration, and make a difference in the nation. Drive responsibly if you are going to drive. Focus to arrive alive. Zimbabwe needs you alive! Stay inspired!Arthur Marara is an Attorney, Author and Speaker. He is also the author of the Personal Development Toolkit , Keys to Financial Freedom , and Keys to Effective Time Management . Send your feedback to greatnessclinic@gmail.com or like his page on Facebook, or Follow him on Twitter @ArthurMarara or Whatsapp: +263772467255 to join his FREE Daily Inspiration Whatsapp Broadcast list.