Tawanda Matanhire Arts Correspondent &#8212; Fast rising producer Tapiwa Jera better known as Maselo has expressed his dismay over Andy Muridzo`s decision to join Jah Prayzah record label JP Studio abandoning him in the middle of recording an album. Information gathered by this publication showed that the producer who worked with Muridzo on his second album Ngarizhambe had already recorded nine songs.After producing Dherira , Chidhafudhunda and Ndinzwisise that has become all-time hits, Maselo is a disappointed man. He said it was unfair for the young crooner to dump him on the 11th hour after all the efforts he put on the yet to be released album. I really feel the pain because I worked with Andy from the onset to make his second album which became an instant hit and put him on the spotlight. We had finished recording and mastering the songs that were going to be hits, he said.Maselo said Muridzo never communicated to him and he was shocked to read about the deal in the newspapers. We have just been working on his next project and am not sure what he s thinking about it since he never communicated his move, a dejected Maselo said.Maselo highlighted that at one time he asked Muridzo to be signed to his newly found record Label Maselo Pro but the man was jumpy about the idea for some time only to realise he was now working with JP through the media. I recently unveiled a record label which I have signed several artists who I have been working with and I approached him to be part of us, surprisingly I discovered that he had been signed to JP through the media a few days ago, Maselo added. Andy is one of the few artists who have put my stable on the limelight because after recording the last album with the hit song Derira a lot of artists have come on board either to inquire or work with me, he said.He added saying the last time they communicated with Muridzo was when he came and asked him to go and work with JP Studios to complete their project but Maselo refused because he was against the idea of taking his work to another studio since he was growing his brand.However, Muridzo played down the allegations saying he was only recording three songs with JP Studios and continue his project at Maselo Pro. Those rumours are not true, I am only doing three songs at JP and continue with my project at Maselo, Muridzo said. The nine songs are already there and we are not going to have any changes. The contract has nothing to do with my recordings. The dates for the launch are the same and the venue are just the same, he said.