1 Peter 3 vs 10 He who would love life and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil, and his lips from speaking deceit. During a conversation I had the opportunity to listen to some gossip. At first I took no heed to the words that had been shared but as I processed them further I realised that the little things we say can be more dangerous than poison.We take the things we say for granted and sometimes forget that the stories we coin based on our imagination, elements of malice and our desire to generally be seen as being in the know can cause overwhelming damage. A general disregard of the consequences of our stories can sometimes lead to calamity. What we should ask ourselves is; what pleasure is derived from generally speaking ill of others?Our lives are such that, despite the words said, each one of us has a duty of care to be exercised in our pursuit of happiness. I have often listened to the things that are said and at times laughed and even added a line to the story but when all is said and done, what is the inherent benefit that one achieves from minding the business of others? Man, by nature, is driven by an individual desire to gain and therefore it becomes senseless for people to participate in activity where the only gain cannot be summated nor is it tangible.Therefore the things we say can sometimes summarise the extent of our hearts and the things we value. Being God-fearing people, the stories we share should seek to edify, bring glory and above all share the goodness of humanity. Individually we are all expected to behave in a manner that is Christ-like.As we approach the weekend and we individually search for Him through our weekly church interactions let us ask ourselves; am I using my tongue to build or rather to destroy? Let us find meaning and more importantly, let us tell stories that bring glory to God.Be blessed!REFLECTIONS OF A WORK IN PROGRESS . . . For More Info:Visit our website: www.thefig-tree.orgEmail us on info@thefig-tree.orgCatch us on StarFM, Monday to Friday at 0620hours.