Warriors line-up at AFCON 2017Innocent Choga Fitness The power of sport is such that it brings different people together, creating social and mental fitness; uniting them through entertainment and recreation. Fathers, mothers and children who do not usually watch soccer had eyes eagerly glued to television sets during the three matches that the Warriors were involved in at the AFCON.The frenzy of activities in sports bars was something that bar owners would yearn to see every day, but this kind of atmosphere can only be experienced on such rare occasions and on New Year s Eve .This week, we have no choice but to discuss this issue that is on almost every Zimbabwean s lips. Personally, I do not like to discuss soccer issues because I think there are so many soccer fundis who know better, but I had a fair share of people urging me to write about what they thought.The beauty of sport is that we are able to watch and discuss the events, interpreting the situation as we perceive saying what we want, be it right or wrong. There is democracy as far as sports analysis is concerned, nobody has a monopoly on any sport so many people enjoy expressing their views. This analysis is not a witch-hunt, but the idea is just to enjoy the different sentiments on fitness shared by the fans.Instead of writing my opinions and those of the fans I encountered, I interviewed individuals whom I thought have a deep understanding of both fitness and soccer issues. Their views may represent what a lot of fans think. Although their views are intertwined, it was not a round table conference, but separate interviews. I simply asked an open question an analysis of the fitness of our team.I consulted the following individuals: Francis Chandida, a former Warriors player who also once represented Zimbabwe at this tournament; Shepherd Kugara, a Physical Education and Sport lecturer at Seke Teachers College; Tawanda Tombe, a student at the Catholic University; Cornelius Piroro, a soccer coach, academy owner and Physical Education and Sport student; Walter Karimanzira, a fitness trainer who has been working with the Zimbabwe cricket teams for the past 11 years and Cosmas Marimo, a business executive and staunch soccer fan.General FitnessMany thought most of our players were small in stature as compared to their opponents. They say despite their size, the opponents were lean and fast. According to this line of thought, the assumption is that the tropical climate has lengthening and strengthening effects not only on the vegetation but also on the athletes.Kugara said: Generally we were shorter and therefore low short balls could have helped to avoid contact. Our players were not agile, lacked focus and their reaction time was poor. Karimanzira says there is a lot to be done as far as strength and conditioning is concerned. The players lacked stamina as they were getting shoved off the ball, displaying weak core stability and lack of balance, agility as well as endurance. He also cited poor weight management and pointed out that Mushekwi looked a bit overweight and was too slow.Tombe shared these sentiments. He felt the Warriors improved play in the second half was due to the fact that the opponents had relaxed as they had finished their work earlier.Marimo thought: During the second game, the strikers and some of the mid-fielders looked unfit against their more physical opponents. Players like Khama and Mahachi being small in stature will always be sized up by the more physical defenders. Musona s first quarter exit in a game earlier is probably proof of his physical condition during AFCON. There is no doubt that Kharma Billiat is a brilliant player with amazing dribbling skills that can match Messi s, but according to Tombe: He failed to fully display his skills because he was being manhandled constantly and was sloppy. Since sport is changing from the reliance on pure talent alone, he needs to work on his strength, just like what Mesut Ozil did when he went to England. However, Chandida feels the youngster was burnt out because he had played too many games for his team and the fact that he was a target for the defenders added to his inability to fully show what he can do.Piroro had a totally different but interesting view. He thinks fitness was not an issue. Goals scored against the warriors came in the morning of the game in the first half so the guys would not have gotten tired by then, besides in the second half they played better, implying that they had good endurance.Besides, the majority of the players in the Warriors side ply their trades outside Zimbabwe and their leagues are almost half way through the season so you cannot say they were unfit. Chandida also shared the same sentiments but hinted there was a mixture of those in season and others out of season.According to Piroro: They had a lot of power and in soccer power is critical but power without control is nothing . Piroro actually feels the captain s use of power play in all situations caused loss of possession in the form of fouls. Piroro said the poor start could have been a result of poor warm up or it was a tactical issue. Chandida also indicated that Musona s injury could have been a result of poor warm up.Piroro further states that the Warriors were found wanting in the speed component, which he felt was poor. We did not do well when speed was at demand. Speed in the form of reaction time. Just like endurance, speed in football is always associated with ball technique and tactical tasks. Gone are the days when any player who is an excellent sprinter would be a valuable connection. Trying to score at a high speed is a lot more complicated than it sounds because it involves many combinations of the specific bio-mechanical and energising functions and systems. The control and activation of speed is an important function of the football brain and has little to do with athletic speed. The harmony between speed, balance, coordination and technique can only be achieved from the early stages of players. Chandida said the ability of just getting into a scoring position is a unique skill by itself.Scientific Approach to FitnessOn television, I heard Bobby Chivaviro, a former sports administrator talking of the importance of a scientific approach and the need to pay attention to fitness training and diet matters. I also heard Stanley Katsande talking of the need for mental strength to deal with what he termed big stage fright.Chandida hinted that unfortunately, the scientific fitness issue has never been an important part of the game in Zimbabwe. Even during our time we used to eat anything. If these guys were serious about that, it would have been ideal to go and camp at the University of Pretoria High Performance Centre, a centre that provides hi-tech fitness facilities where you have access to dieticians and other sports professionals. It is the best in Africa and second best in the world. Kugara said there was need to apply scientific methods of training. Since the games were to be won at all costs the pressure applied on players could have resulted in the many mistakes we witnessed, hence the need for a full time psychologist.AcclimatisationMarimo thought that: During the first game the boys looked like they were battling with the heat. Before the game started they looked like they had just finished playing. They struggled against the Algerians but it is a game we could have won. I suppose with the heat etc they still looked fresh and strong. Chandida also added that the team could have also camped in Dubai for a number of days to acclimatise to the humid conditions in Gabon.Practice makes perfectBoth Chandida and Piroro cited lack of adequate preparations as a problem .Piroro says: Our national team performed to our level of preparedness. Emotions make us fail to make an objective analysis. Chandida said Dubai has become the hub for soccer players from all over the world as they go there during winter break. Camping there would have created better chances of meeting other teams and playing friendly games there. Meeting and playing with the big names will clear the fear and respect of the big names.Chandida says when he played at AFCON their preparations were better in comparison. He said they camped in France for 16 days, played friendly matches with teams like AJ Auxarre, Morrocco and Egypt.Chandida strongly feels there is need for continuity. He stated that since the average players age is 24 /25 and the coach is relatively young the team will still be fit come the next AFCON in 2019.He says: There is need to invest in the coach and the team, build up from their experience than to start afresh again. When sportspersons don national uniforms and carry the national flag they are sports soldiers for the entire country therefore total commitment is expected. Fitness issues are their prerogative not the coach s. Soldiers march forward, they do not retreat. As a nation I think we need to exercise spiritual and mental fitness by forgiving, lest we suffer from blood pressure due to anger.At least we had three occasions of social fitness whilst other Southern African countries had none. Let s hope in 2019 Billiat will stun the bullies and the Zimbabwean team will participate right through to the final match. Email: innocentfchoga@gmail.com Innocent Choga is a six time National Bodybuilding Champion with international experience. He is studying for a science degree in Physical Education and Sport.