Ellina Mhlanga: Sports ReporterNATIONAL Athletics Association of Zimbabwe s efforts to turn around the sport are proving to be paying off as they are beginning to attract sponsors with JM Busha 54 Races coming on board to sponsor a number of activities including two major marathons this year. The organisation is set to host the JM Busha 54 Races for Peace and Unity in Africa. The partnership with NAAZ is expected to run for four years, with a sponsorship of $300 000 on average annually.Speaking at the unveiling of the package in Harare yesterday, NAAZ president, Tendai Tagara, revealed they are looking at hosting two marathons on May 25 and July 29. We have a marathon on 25 May, which is one of the 54 marathons, which are targeted for the whole of Africa. We are witnessing today the unveiling of the Zimbabwean chapter of the marathons. Because of our close relations that we are establishing, they have decided that the elite marathon of these chapters is also organised in Zimbabwe. This means we have a second marathon which is on the 29th of July, where we will be inviting athletes from other countries in Africa. This package comes with a track and field package and we really applaud that one as an association. The fourth activity of this project is the 2020 Tokyo (Olympics) marathon project. There is a fund specifically for 2020 Tokyo Olympics, that s why the project is coming at around $300 000, said Tagara.Tagara said the sponsorship is a result of good governance within the association. The sponsorship has come at a right time when we are turning around as a federation. This is the apex of the good governance that we have tried to put across into the athletics family that we are now getting partners that are coming to partner us, Tagara said.JM Busha 54 Races country representative, Vimbai Zinyama, said they believe in the development of sport and are looking forward to a fruitful partnership with NAAZ. We have witnessed them (NAAZ) managing other races in the country and we are convinced that we can host international competitions with them because of their standards and also their ability to handle situations. So as JM Bush Holdings we are very proud of them particularly here in Zimbabwe and we believe that we are going to go places. We believe this journey is not going to end here but we hope that a lot of people will come on board and sustain it. We also hope that we will be able to spread as wide as possible so that it is not just to the elite people that we are able to reach out to. It is our wish and encouragement that as many Zimbabweans as possible who can run and who have not had the opportunity to display their skills will take advantage of this and be able to showcase what they are good at, said Zinyama.JM Busha 54 Races is a non-profit organisation involved in social investment programmes aimed at promoting sport, education, peace and unity among other things.The unveiling ceremony was also attended by founder of the organisation Joseph Busha, Zimbabwe Olympic Committee president, Admire Masenda, and ZOC chief executive Anna Mguni.