Gift MuzadziPaul Mundandi: Sports ReporterFORMER champions Dynamos are likely to lose one of their key technical members, Gift Muzadzi, who has been linked with a move to ambitious Ngezi Platinum Stars. The Herald has it on good authority that the experienced goalkeepers coach attended his medical examination in Ngezi last Wednesday. Muzadzi has been targeted by the platinum miners to replace another former Dynamos goalkeeper Zondai Nyaungwa for the post of goalkeepers coach.Muzadzi was yesterday coy about his move, but the platinum miners confirmed they were luring the dreadlocked coach. Ngezi Platinum Stars chairman Jeremiah Gasitene confirmed they were eyeing Muzadzi together with another former DeMbare son Naison Muchekela to beef up their technical team. He was here for his medicals and we are in the process of working on his papers. He is going to be our goalkeepers coach following the departure of Nyaungwa last season. We had no goalkeepers coach and Nelson Muchekela will also be joining us and he will be our juniors coach, said Gasitene.Muzadzi, however, has played down the intended move. Ngezi are coached by another former DeMbare player and coach Tonderayi Ndiraya. I was having a meeting on Wednesday with the technical team. I am loyal to Dynamos and I have never been to Ngezi. It s just a rumour, said Muzadzi.Dynamos have also lost key players Dominic Mukandi and Godknows Murwira to Ngezi Platinum Stars while midfilder Brett Amidu moved to FC Platinum.Mukandi and Murwira will be playing in Africa this season with their new paymasters, Ngezi Platinum Stars. DeMbare president Kenny Mubaiwa, however, said he is not a worried man following the departure of a number of key players who did not have their contracts renewed.Mubaiwa remained adamant the club would not be affected as they hope to normalise things after a crucial meeting with the board which was initially scheduled for the weekend before being moved to January 22.It is at that meeting where the fate of Lloyd Mutasa and his assistant, Murape Murape, will be decided. But with Muzadzi moving to Ngezi, Dynamos would also have to now hunt for a new goalkeepers coach. Meanwhile, former Dynamos captain Justice Majabvi, who is now plying his trade in Tanzania, yesterday said he is hopeful of better fortunes for DeMbare. I hope this season I will see a better Dynamos as compared to the one I was following last season. It was the worst Dynamos ever. I do not expect that form such a big club. Dynamos must be fighting for honours every season and finishing on fifth position is very bad and the Dynamos I know is not used to that. My heart bleeds for Dynamos because I follow them and the team is in my heart. I played for Lancashire Steel were I was the team captain, but I was not known. When I joined Dynamos I was even called to the Warriors under coach Mapeza (Norman). I am challenging the players at Dynamos and those who are coming to show character, make a name for themselves and win trophies. The club opens opportunities of getting contracts outside the country and also better packages to clubs in Zimbabwe. It s a big club and players must ignore boardroom squabbles, play their football and if they win matches everyone will see who will be wrong between the players and the executives. Results must come and I am going to do my best to assist the club in securing better players. I love the club and nobody can separate me from the institution called Dynamos, said Majabvi.