Sophie Chese-Msowa Arts Correspondent &#8212; Sons of legendary musicians Willom Tight and Bob Nyabinde, Garry and Agga, have combined forces on a national musical tour meant to take their own music to greater heights. The two youthful but talented musicians have already started performing in Harare and are proving to be a force to reckon with in the industry.Last week they shared the stage at Bar Rouge in the capital and both performed their own songs and both their father s hits.It seems music is an inborn thing in both of them.In an interview, Gary said their parents have helped each other during their days and they have taken it upon themselves to help each other as they grow in the competitive industry. It is true we have embarked on a tour that is dubbed Sons of Legends tour and we will be touring Zimbabwe first before we go international. The idea behind this tour is to help each other on this musical journey which we both have embarked on. Our fathers helped each other way back so we thought why not the same do. We have seen a number of musicians also helping each other, talk of Sulu and Jah Prayzah among others, and this has worked and that is what we are doing, he said.He highlighted that both him and Agga share the same vision of keeping their fathers legacies and also introducing themselves on the entertainment platform. We both share the same vision that is keeping our fathers musical legacy and also we want to introduce ourselves as unique musicians apart from the popularity that our fathers have. We do not want to ride on our fathers achievements but we want to achieve as Gary Tight and Agga Nyabinde, he said.Mostly when these two perform, they always round up their shows with their fathers hits, for instance, Agga plays Chabuda Hapana while Gary plays Wekumaruzevha .Both Gary and Agga thanked their fathers for the support they are giving them and promised not to disappoint. It feels such a privilege and an honour to be a son to Bob Nyabinde; such an exemplary legendary musician, and it feels more special when this father supports you all the way when you decide to embark on this musical journey. Our parents are so supportive and it has become our mission not disappoint them. It is going to be music and splendid performance all the way, said Agga.Meanwhile, Gary has managed to draw the attention of audiences across the country with his soothing voice and it seems music has always been a path that he wanted to follow.At the age of 10 he had already begun performing with his father at different concerts around Harare while on the other hand Agga had started performing as a lead guitarist with his father at a tender age.