Cuthbert ChitimaEddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter&#8212;CHAMPIONS CAPS United believe it is now time to take their preparations a gear up ahead of their return to the CAF Champions League as they have lined up an international friendly match against Mozambican counterparts Ferrovi rio da Beira at the National Sports Stadium this Sunday. This will be an opportunity for coach Lloyd Chitembwe to assess the progress they have made so far ahead of next month s preliminary round assignment.The Harare giants have been in camp for the past three weeks, working mostly on stamina and physical fitness after the players had returned from a short break for the festive holidays.But they have also gradually increased the ball work under the tutelage of assistant coach Fungai Tostao Kwashi, who has been taking charge of business in the absence of his superiors Lloyd Chitembwe and Mark Mathe who are attending a CAF coaching course.However, the two coaches are expected to join the rest of the team for the international friendly at the completion of the course on Sunday.The club s chief executive, Cuthbert Chitima, said supporters will be allowed in to get a glimpse of what their Champions League representatives will be like this season.CAPS United will get their campaign in the Champions League against Lioli of Lesotho on the weekend of February 11-12. The team started preparations this month and this will be our first friendly match. Ferroviario have confirmed they are coming this week. Supporters will be allowed in this game, but we are still working on the gate charges, said Chitima.Ferreviario, who won the Mocambola title last season, are also preparing for the Champions League. They are also on pre-season and have a date against Zimamoto of Zanzibar.Makepekepe last year had their pre-season in Mozambique where they featured in a tournament.They have attributed the tour as one of the reasons for their success in the 2016 Premiership season.Chitima said Makepekepe will this year embark on a week-long training camp in Zambia.The Green Machine have been invited by the country s champions Zanaco and are expected to leave at the end of the month. The trip is on, but we are just waiting for confirmation from our hosts on how we are going to play the games. They have to tell us whether it s going to be in a tournament format or we feature in one-off friendly match, said Chitima.Makepekepe yesterday welcomed most of their players at training with the return of Abbas Amidu from Vietnam, where he had gone for trials.But CAPS United might have wasted a slot in their CAF Champions League after they had included Stephen Makatuka before his move to South Africa second tier side AmaZulu.Makatuka signed a two-year deal with the National First Division side that is coached by former Warriors gaffer Joey Antipas. There is nothing we can do about the registration of Makatuka. After all the window has since closed. But I think we made a replacement with the signing of another defender, Last Sithole. So I believe we are covered in that area, said Chitima.Meanwhile, Makatuka has told the club s website that his transition from CAPS United to Usuthu is being fast-tracked by the warm reception from his new teammates. I think the whole system is fantastic at AmaZulu, there s good professionalism and support here especially from the senior players. The younger guys are now also starting to get used to me, said Makatuka.The 28-year-old defender said he is looking forward to the exciting adventure as the club battles for promotion. They are currently fourth on the log standings with 15 games played. I don t think South African football differs that much from back home, okay I do see a lot of this tiki-taka and there is talent here at AmaZulu. The guys are putting in a lot of effort and it s good to see the senior guys trying to unite the guys so we can push towards fighting for promotion. The coach likes to work with committed players and I m looking forward to contribute a lot to this team, he said.