BOURNEMOUTH. &#8211; Alexis Sanchez demonstrated his immense frustration after Arsenal s 3-3 draw with Bournemouth in the English Premiership on Tuesday night. The Chilean forward ripped his gloves off after the final whistle was blown and threw them to the floor before heading down the tunnel without shaking hands with a single opponent.Arsenal managed to draw despite falling three goals behind, with Sanchez getting the comeback under way with a header, but were unable to find a late winner against 10-man Bournemouth.And Sanchez was not the only Arsenal player left disappointed by the draw at the Vitality Stadium.Hector Bellerin tweeted a video of UFC fighter Dominick Cruz following his defeat to Cody Garbrandt and wrote: Sums up how I feel. Great fight from the team at a tough ground. Disappointed but we keep moving forward! Bellerin was tackled by Ryan Fraser in the build-up to Bournemouth s third goal and put together arguably his worst performance in an Arsenal shirt since his debut.But Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger revealed the right-back had carried an injury into the match. We had three or four players we had to play tonight that we had to wait until the warm-up to see if they could play, said Wenger. Hector Bellerin had a knock so he was uncertain to play, and that s the problem with only 48 hours (between games); you have to play some players again. This complicates the job a lot, but we have to shut up and cope with it. Arsenal staged a sensational fightback from three goals down as Olivier Giroud s last-gasp equaliser rescued a draw at Bournemouth, while Swansea welcomed new boss Paul Clement with a crucial 2-1 win at Crystal Palace on Tuesday night.Wenger s side were facing their first defeat and a major setback to their English Premier League title hopes to Bournemouth after goals from Charlie Daniels, Callum Wilson and Ryan Fraser stunned the Gunners at Dean Court.But Arsenal scored three times in the last 20 minutes as Sanchez and Lucas Perez netted before Bournemouth captain Simon Francis was sent off, setting the stage for Giroud s headed equaliser in the second minute of stoppage-time. - DailyMail-AFP.