Prophet MakandiwaAnd after six days Jesus taketh with him Peter, and James, and John, and leadeth them up into an high mountain apart by themselves: and he was transfigured before them (Mark 9:2) There is a move of God that has come which is not meant for everybody but a chosen few. God is inviting some few people who are willing to be moved from where they are to a different location where they will have an experience. When the transfiguration happened, it was up to Jesus to choose the witnesses and only three disciples were chosen.The Bible says that Jesus then led them right on top of a high mountain, high to a point that it needed Jesus to lead them. Climbing a high mountain requires energy, commitment, time and sacrifice for you to be part of that group of a chosen few. How determined are you to be part of that group?Jesus carefully chose the people that He knew were willing to sacrifice all those things for them to be on top of that high mountain. There is an invitation to a greater glory where Jesus our Master is inviting some of us. You might have been born again for a while now and you have been in one place year in year out.But there comes a time in life when Jesus comes to a place where you are and He invites you to a very strange place where you have never been before. Are you willing to be part of that group? In life there is nothing as boring as being in one place for a very long time.Have you ever wondered what really makes people cry when their father is sentenced to 30 years in prison? Sometimes it is not even the death sentence that makes them cry, even if it is two or six years in prison you see relatives crying. It is because of confinement in one place. What makes a prison is, you are found in one place for a long time.A prison is not one only when you are inside of it, even when you are outside but stuck in one place you are still in prison. It is the same concept in life. Where have you been, and are you still there? Just you being in one place for two years means you are a prisoner. There is need for you to be liberated by the power of God.Jesus did not invite all of His disciples but some of them to a different location and He led them. Jesus knew exactly what was going to happen in the mountain. Jesus was very conscious and He had the divine knowledge about something that was going to happen before it even happened.No matter how supernatural it was, Jesus was aware of the change that was going to happen to Him. It was not a change that came when He was not aware, but he was very much aware. Being very much aware of the change that is about to take place in your life is that kind of confidence which is what is also called faith. Faith operating at that level is another level indeed where you know that you cannot operate at the same level for another day.Jesus invited His disciples to witness something that can happen to a man as people are watching. What happened on top of the mountain is what is called transfiguration and Jesus wanted certain people to witness it. It does not matter what people say but during the process of your transfiguration, there shall be some of them present and watch it happening on you.After the transfiguration of Jesus, it then became a message that was supposed to be preached after. The witnesses of the transfiguration were commanded not to talk about it until Jesus was raised from the dead. Why would they talk about it if it is all about Jesus and how He changed? It was given to three of His disciples to minister on the power of transfiguration after the crossIt was not all of His disciples but only three had a message on possibilities of change in a person s life. You do not have to look at a person and laugh at him because of what he might be today, he can change. You should never at any point despise a person because one day he can receive a divine visitation. Transfiguration is possible in one s life.There is something unusual that is going to begin happening in your life this year which is going to become an experience. God is going to give your people and relatives a story that is unbelievable. You are going to go through a transformation as people are watching.It is not all about how Jesus was changed but He had to make sure there were people present to witness it so that they can carry such a message to the rest of the people. They were supposed to make people know that they can also be transfigured if they are willing. In terms of finances you have been in one place for a very long time whether as a family or as a nation.If you are not willing to be separated from the rest you do not have a part in the experience. Jesus is looking for people that are willing to be set apart, people who are not hesitant to be set apart.There a lot of curses in your generation and they have affected you because you always wanted to be part of your generation. You do not want to leave and you still want to belong there but Jesus wants to separate you from the rest of your generation. There are things you are never going to see unless and until you separate yourself from your people. What sort of calling is this?Many people hear about a calling and all they think of is a man that God is calling to preach, heal the sick and cast out devils. The likes of Moses is the only picture that you have of a man who was called by God and he really became a man of God who ministered supernaturally.But do not forget that Moses came after Abraham. The call that Abraham received was a call to a place. (Genesis 12). Abraham was not called to preach but to possess a land, it was a call to property ownership. He was not called by God to come to church, he was called to own a territory. You do not need a Prophet for you to know that where you are you do not belong there.Pain is a messenger sent to you by God to notify you that you are in a wrong place. Pain and discomfort is the voice of God telling you that you need to move away from where you are no matter what it takes. Tell yourself that you cannot remain sitting in that valley and yet there is a mountain experience. You have to be part of that experience, ask Jesus to lead you there.Feedback:www.facebook.com/prophetEMakandiwatwitter.com/prmakandiwawww.instagram.com/emmanuelmakandiwaHelpline: +263 4 339 341