Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter PROMISING Zimbabwe rugby player Tadiwanashe Murewa has taken a major step towards his dream of becoming a professional after he joined South African College St Stichians. The St Georges Form Three pupil will leave the country today for his new base.At 15-years, the centre will be in South Africa for the next two years on a rugby scholarship, a move that presents him with a chance to impress and secure a professional contract.Murewa was naturally happy to have found the opportunity of moving to South Africa where there are a number of academies and is hopeful this could herald a career breakthrough. I am happy and grateful to St Stichians who offered me a scholarship where I will develop both as a player and academically. The chance came at the right place and time and I am prepared to take up the challenge. I have always liked the sport since my primary school days at Heritage I enjoyed the sport and I have decided to take it seriously now. I will continue to work hard to see my career grow. I will be able to train at the High Performance Centre. I was encouraged by my former teammates who moved across the Limpopo some two years ago and they have developed so much, Murewa said.Murewa will join the long list of local junior players who have moved to South Africa.Some of the players who joined the trek south of the Limpopo more recently include eighthman Tapiwa Tsomondo, lock Tinotenda Zakeyo and flyhalf Luke Masasire who joined Western Province Rugby Football Union in 2013.The talented centre will be reunited with his former Zimbabwe juniors teammates Munashe Mhere and Nyasha Gumbo at Stichians College.The three were spotted together when they took part in the 2013 Craven week tournament in South Africa as Under-13s.Mhere and Gumbo made a move earlier as Murewa s mother felt he was still too young to stay far away from home.During that Craven week, Murewa was voted man-of-the-match twice and that contributed to Stitchians College scouts recommending him to their institution.Alex Murewa, father to Tadiwanashe, said they have no option, but to let him leave for SA as they have been persistent in offering him a scholarship. We have tried to resist the temptation for a move but we have since discovered that it is good for him. He is a good player and with the way rugby is treated in SA he will develop while in good hands. Unlike here where the sport is played only during the second term, in SA they have a full year calendar which will prove helpful for him. We had a 50 percent scholarship from St Georges but unfortunately he has to make a move, said Murewa.If well nurtured, Murewa will follow the footsteps of other Zimbabwean rugby players who made it huge in South Africa like Tendai Beast Mtawarira and Tonderai Chavhanga.