Welcome to 2017, this is the first Saturday of the year and obvious we need to start talking about fashion trends. Since it is already back to school and back to work, one thing you can t take away is fashion and make sure you start the year on a good note. 2016 was a mixed bag in terms of fashion. We saw a lot of trends but some of these need to be left out, because they do not serve any purpose. Because of the rains and the weather which is unreliable and unpredictable, dressing in layers is the key this January but do not over do it.Use many thin, warm layers rather than a few thick layers. It will insulate better and allow you to strip off layers if the temperatures get warmer. Remember to wear a simple base layer, which could either be leggings on your sweater or blouse.A base layer can be long johns, union suit, long underwear, or whatever that can provide a warm, light base to your summer winter gear.Make sure you balance your outfit.Tight clothing does not trap any heat, whereas loose clothing allows for more insulation.Tight-fitting sweater dresses are only made for fashion.For a leaner look, style your looser, upper body seasonal clothes with fitted clothing on the lower body.Last week I got the following mail: The schools are opening; I don t have now time to focus on what I wear because of limited time as I will be busy with my child who s starting Grade One. Please how do I continue dressing amazingly when I am super busy and not rich? For a start, let us be real, usually, the one tip to dressing better or the secret that every street style star knows will get her photographed isn t a tip or secret at all.It is about money.With money comes fame, freebies, lots of help, and free time, and voil ! you ve got style.It is easy to be considered well-dressed if you re shopping at the designer floor or huge departmental store.It s much harder if you are not.United Kingdom, stylist and image consultant LaTonya Staubs has made a career out of giving women advice about how to revamp their wardrobes or create a new look without operating under the assumption that her clients also have access to a Scrooge McDuck-sized money pit.The dress is a must have item this time of need and make sure you have in your wardrobe that if you choose to jump to store, dinner or meeting you can don one.Again dressing for success can be termed professionalism and still on the subject make sure it counts.When it comes to dressing for the office, you obviously need to change up your wardrobe a little bit and if you can t afford to fill a second closet with just work wear (LOL) that might involve some easy outfit hacks.Whether you work in a more casual environment or somewhere very professional, you can t go to your job wearing the same thing you would wear to the mall on a Saturday.Since you will be in office, wear jeans with heels instead of flats.Unless you work in a very professional office, you are probably allowed to wear nice jeans to work. Even if they fit well and it is appropriate to wear them, pairing them with small heels makes them instantly look more professional. Flats are fine, but they definitely give off more of a casual, weekend vibe.You don t need anything crazy these target heels have a very small heel but they automatically give your outfit a little bit more of a working-girl vibe.Another point is if you are going to wear flats, make them pointy toe flats instead of loafer-style. It is totally acceptable to wear flats in the majority of offices.If you are going to do that, one would recommend going for pointy-toe flats instead of a loafer or smoking shoe style like the shoes on the left. The option on the left looks much more casual, even when paired with a blazer.The pointy-toe just looks a little bit more dressed up. Interestingly to note, I always fight with my female colleagues when it comes to slacks trousers or pants.Make sure your pants are hemmed and fit correctly. It sounds obvious, but one knows how hard it can be to remember to fix the length of your pants. Next week, we will focus on the gentlemen on how best too they can dress well at work and for success.Enjoy the weekend.