PARENTS whose children learn at Seventh Day Adventist-run Solusi High School are up in arms with the school s administration after a boarding master severely assaulted some Form One pupils resulting in five being hospitalised. School officials are said to have been protecting the man at the centre of the storm Mr Methuseli Ncube as there have been complaints in the past, but no action was taken against him.During visiting day to the school, some parents found their children nursing injuries and when the pupils were interrogated they opened up on the abuse for various alleged misdemeanours. Angry parents told The Chronicle yesterday that school and church officials were reluctant to act on Mr Ncube.The pupils were allegedly assaulted on different dates since schools opened last month and the latest incident occurred sometime.A source said Form Six pupils recorded Mr Ncube beating up one of the pupils. The Chronicle could not get the voice recording but tracked one of the hospitalised boys at a local hospital who narrated his ordeal. He revealed that pupils were severely assaulted after delaying to go to the dining hall to eat.The schoolboy said on the day, Mr Ncube beat them up using a thick stick. This was not the first time that he beat us up like that. He clamps our heads tightly between his legs and then bashes us with a log, a stick, fists or anything that he can get hold of. Most of the times, he insults us with obscenities, even referring to our parents private parts. He even boasts that no one can do anything to him because he claims he is untouchable.If it was up to me I would just transfer from this school. It is even making me hate my childhood church, said the boy in-between sobs, as he narrated his story.One of the parents who approached this publication said when she found her child nursing wounds; she immediately decided to withdraw him from the school. She described Mr Ncube s conduct as inhumane and brutal for someone working at a Christian school. &#8211; Chronicle.