LONDON. &#8211; An irate Jose Mourinho stormed out of a TV interview after Manchester United floundered in a goalless draw with Hull City in an English Premier League soccer match on Wednesday night. The Portuguese manager s fury was aimed at referee Mike Jones over Hull s time-wasting tactics. But Mourinho ended an interview abruptly at 88 seconds when asked to be specific about his complaints, telling his questioner: If you don t know football, you shouldn t be with a microphone in your hand. He also took aim at what he sees as preferential treatment of rival managers Jurgen Klopp and Arsene Wenger. Liverpool boss Klopp had screamed in the face of a fourth official during Tuesday s draw with Chelsea.Mourinho said: You know clearly that I am different. The rules for me are different. I am different in everything. In a dig at Arsenal boss Wenger, who shoved fourth official Anthony Taylor in the tunnel a fortnight ago, Mourinho said: I (had to) watch my team play in a hotel, I was forbidden to go to the stadium, my assistant had a six-match stadium ban and he didn t touch anyone. And in a thinly veiled swipe at Klopp he added: On Tuesday, one fourth official told a manager: I enjoy very much your passion, so do what you want to do . Today I was told sit down or I have to send you to the stands , so everything is different for me. Don t ask me questions that put me in a difficult situation. On a night when reports in France suggested that United had struck an agreement to sign Atletico Madrid s French maestro Antoine Griezmann in the summer, United missed a great opportunity to capitalise on other results and press their top-four claims.This clearly infuriated Mourinho, who saw his side draw a third consecutive Premier League match after being held by Liverpool and Stoke.It remains to be seen whether the FA will take a dim view of Mourinho s latest outburst. Aside from the time-wasting by Marco Silva s Hull who leapfrogged Sunderland at the bottom he was also incensed that Hull striker Oumar Niasse did not see red for a number of fouls. If I speak I am punished. I don t want to be punished, added Mourinho. I m not happy with the result. I won t criticise the opponents because they are fighting for their lives. Every point for them is golden. They have to fight with everything they have. They tried to see what they were allowed to do. The referee gave the feedback. And then they were comfortable doing what they did for 90 minutes. I m not critical of the opposition because they are fighting for their lives. &#8211; Mailonline.