Willard KatsandePetros Kausiyo Deputy Sports Editor&#8212;ZIMBABWE captain Willard Katsande will by the end of this week know of his future with Kaizer Chiefs as the midfielder enters fresh contract talks with the South African Premiership giants. Katsande s three-year contract with Chiefs is set to expire at the end of June and the former ABSA Premiership champions are understood to be eager to tie down the combative midfielder to a fresh deal.This comes amid indications that Chiefs major rivals Orlando Pirates have lined up an audacious bid to lure him to the Buccaneers while interest is also understood to have been expressed from clubs in Turkey, Belgium and the United Arab Emirates.There had been indications Chiefs would seal a contract extension with Katsande before Christmas last year, but by the time the former Gunners and Ajax Cape Town man came back home to join the Warriors camp, no agreement had been signed.Katsande then turned his focus to the Warriors African Cup of Nations duties, albeit on a failed mission in Gabon.The skipper and his troops suffered the ignominy of becoming the first Zimbabwean side to return from the Nations Cup without a win from their group games, with their showing seemingly undoing the strides they had gained when securing their place at the tournament in Gabon as table toppers and with a game to spare.But as the Warriors return to their respective teams for their various club duties, Katsande would have to first head to the Amakhosi boardroom to ink a new deal with the Chiefs management.The 31-year-old midfielder confirmed as much yesterday as he prepared to return to Johannesburg for the second half of the season. Yes it is true I am still discussing my contract. I deserve a better package and I have proven myself so I will be going back this week to finalise discussions. It has been a fantastic three years of my initial contract and my numbers speak . . . how I saved the team and what I achieved with the team individually, Katsande said.Katsande has chipped in with some vital goals in a Chiefs outfit whose weakest link has been their attack which has seen Amakhosi managing just 18 goals in 15 games.Chiefs, who are fourth on the table, have so far kept the most clean sheets in the league and are among the teams that conceded the least number of goals, 12 from 15 matches.Kaizer Chiefs football manager Bobby Motaung also told the club s website yesterday that they had been awaiting Katsande to first conclude his national duties before tying him to a contract extension.Motaung said Katsande was one of the few remaining players whose deals they needed to wrap up. We are busy with the review of other contracts. We are working around the clock to review the contracts of Lucky Baloyi, Willard Katsande, Tsepo Masilela and George Maluleka. Proposals are on the table with regard to Katsande and Maluleka. We are waiting for Katsande to return from national team duty to continue with the negotiations. We are looking to finalise Maluleka s deal by the end of the week, Motaung said.Chiefs, just like a host of South African clubs, were busy completing their player movements in time for last night s transfer deadline with Motaung revealing that they had signed Venezuelan striker Gustavo Paez. We have signed Gustavo Paez on a two-and-half year deal. We invited Paez for trials after identifying him through our scouting network. The team has been playing well and creating ample chances, but we ve struggled to convert them.Paez (26), a Venezuelan national with an Italian passport, arrived at Naturena (Chiefs base) as a free agent having played the last two seasons for Venezuela s Sociedad Civil Estudiantes De Merida FC.Katsande s fellow Zimbabweans Edmore Chirambadare and Michelle Katsvairo who were signed from Chicken Inn at the beginning of the 2016-17 season also form part of the Chiefs attacking line.But they are yet to fully assert themselves.