Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter FOR a player who has been warming the bench for a long time since his arrival at the Green Machine, Cabby Kamhapa says he treasures every opportunity he gets to play football. Kamhapa, who got a pat on the back from his coach Lloyd Chitembwe after putting up a polished performance in the CAF Champions League match against Lioli at the weekend, told The Herald that he wants to make an impression at the Green Machine with every chance he gets.Makepekepe drew 0-0 with the Lesotho champions in the CAF Champions League preliminary round first leg match at the Setsoto Stadium.Kamhapa was a last-minute change to the squad after midfielder Joel Ngodzo was disqualified by the match commissioner because of the discrepancies on his registration papers.Although disappointed by the unanticipated changes to his line-up, Chitembwe was still impressed by the way the former FC Platinum and Chicken Inn man responded to his call.Kamhapa, who played a marginal role in the team s title success last season, was involved in most of the midfield battles where he partnered Devon Chafa as twin anchors after getting a rare start.He said he was not overwhelmed as he has had experience at the top level after playing in the Confederation Cup with FC Platinum in 2012. I thank God for this opportunity. I am one person who always works hard at training and keeps hoping for the best. So it was always coming and I received this opportunity with both hands when I was asked to play. I think I played well and I managed to finish the 90 minutes. I am glad with the support from my coach and my teammates. The good thing is we always play as a team and that is why I fitted in easily. We managed to play according to the coach s instructions such that we didn t concede a goal. It was a good match, I am sure the draw was a positive result playing away from home. So we look forward to more hard work at training so that we win the return match and progress to the nest stage, said Kamhapa.While the draw was good for CAPS United, the Green Machine would have done themselves a big favour by getting an away goal if they had utilised the opportunities they created.Makepekepe were playing their first competitive match of the year and they are hoping to learn from their mistakes and improve at home. Of course, it could have been much better for us if we had gotten a goal but the good thing is they also didn t score. We need to finish them off here. From what I saw, Lioli are a good team but they can be beaten. They were congesting the midfield because they have got a short and tight pitch. However, when they come to the National Sports Stadium I am sure we will be able to open them up because of the size of the pitch. We will need to make good use of the chances that will come our way. We have to guard against complacency because in the last 15 minutes of that game they were really coming at us. We also need to work on our fitness so that we finish the 90 minutes on a high note, said Kamhapa.The winner on Sunday will proceed to the first round where they face former African Champions TP Mazembe of the Democratic Republic of Congo.As it stands, Lioli are still in with a big say if they can score at the National Sports Stadium.They have good players going forward in the form of national team players Tumelo Khutlang, Jerry Kamele, Tsepo Seturumane and DRC import Pierre Junior Maba.