Cde ChomboHerald ReporterThe unresolved issue of Zanu-PF acting provincial chairpersons is threatening unity in the party ahead of next year s harmonised elections, starting in Masvingo where the province has two chairpersons claiming legitimacy. A leadership tussle pitting Cdes Amasa Nhenjana and Ezra Chadzamira has ushered in a new wave of confusion in the province. Other provinces where the co-option of the chairperson was done without the input of provincial structures are reportedly facing internal rebellion.At a provincial meeting held in Masvingo last week, Cde Nhenjana, who was the acting chair since February last year, announced the reinstatement of Cde Chadzamira as the provincial chairman.He said the provincial executive resolved that he reverted to his position of vice chair.But in a dramatic turn of events, Cde Nhenjana on Monday told The Herald that he never relinquished his position to Cde Chadzamira.Politburo member and senior party official in Masvingo, Cde Josiah Hungwe, said they recognise Cde Chadzamira as the provincial chairman after Cde Nhenjana voluntarily relinquished the position. I convened a meeting where I called all members of the leadership in Masvingo to organise how we can thank all the people who assisted us to win the Bikita by-election and I invited Cde Nhenjana as the provincial chairman to the meeting, he said. He did not pitch up on time and by the time he came he told us that they had a provincial executive meeting where they agreed that (Cde) Chadzamira be reinstated to his position as the provincial chairman. He (Cde Nhenjana) is the one who made the announcement in front of everyone, adding that he was now reverting to his position as vice chairman. We all said we don t have any problem with that and we now recognise (Cde) Chadzamira as the chairman. I think he made some consultations elsewhere after the announcement and was told to reverse it. Cde Hungwe challenged Cde Nhenjana to come out clean if he was pressured to reverse his announcement.Cde Nhenjana denied that he relinquished his position, adding that he was still in charge of the province. He said assuming that he was no longer interested in the position, he would surrender it to the party not to an individual.Cde Nhenjana further accused Cde Hungwe and Masvingo Minister of State Cde Shuvai Mahofa of fanning factionalism in the province. I have a letter that was signed by Cde Ignatius Chombo (secretary for Administration) showing that (Cde) Chadzamira s suspension was lifted, but he was coming back as an ordinary card carrying member, he said. If he wants to occupy any post in the party he has to rise through the party structures again, starting from the cell. All this confusion is being caused by (Cdes) Mahofa and Hungwe who are fighting me for their factional ends. I never said I am relinquishing my position, but I just mentioned that as an item on the agenda of the meeting and they twisted it to say that I have relinquished my position. Some party members have been calling on secretary for the Commissariat Cde Saviour Kasukuwere to organise elections to choose substantive provincial chairs or at least have a formal co-option of the leaders.This was after it emerged that out of the 10 party provinces, only one is led by an elected chair, while the others are being led by hand-picked officials in acting capacities.