MbeuArts Correspondent Afro-fusion musician Mbeu and his Modzi Tribe seem to be going a step higher with each event.The Pakare Paye product will this Valentine s Day take his act to Rainbow Towers Hotel where he will share the stage with Myrah Dube. The duo is expected to spread love to couples at an event that has been organised by business, media and arts network Zibah.The show will take place in Rainbow Towers VIP Lounge from 7pm to 10pm on February 14.Zibah chairman Takesure Mazuruse said the show will go beyond spreading love as it would also be an important business networking platform.He said Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce chief executive officer, Christopher Mugaga and Pro-Air founder George Munengwa will be guest speakers at the event that will have many high profile guests in attendance. We chose Valentine s Day because we want people to come with their spouses, but the occasion will go beyond celebrating love. It will be a time to network as business people, said Mazuruse. I am happy that many high profile figures in the business community have confirmed that they will attend the event with their spouses. We will have Mugaga and Munengwa as our guest speakers. After the speeches, couples will go on the dance floor to get down to good music. We are calling it Valentine Ballet and it will be a day to see prominent figures on the dance floor. Talk about mixing business and pleasure; that is what we will do on the day. Mbeu promised a good performance and said he has already started working towards the show. We are practicing many love tunes and we will give people the best we can. It will be a day to show people what we can do and we like them to also show us what they can do on the dance floor. We are happy to be involved with Zibah, which is a community of various prominent personalities, said Mbeu. People that will come to the show will definitely make important contacts and we will serenade them with good music from Mhodzi Tribe. Mbeu has become one of the most consistent young performers in showbiz and he has done many shows with established musicians.He takes his show at Rainbow Towers as step higher in his career.