Ishemunyoro Chingwere in PORT LOUIS, Mauritius NGEZI Platinum Stars captain Liberty Chakoroma has challenged his troops to live up to their billing and dismiss Pamplemouse of Mauritius tomorrow.The 2016 Chibuku Cup winners arrived in Port Louis last night, for their date against Pamplemouse in a CAF Confederation Cup preliminary round first leg at the Belle Vue Stadium. Despite it being their debut appearance in continental club football, the Zimbabweans are largely expected to make light work of the Mauritians.Chakoroma told The Herald yesterday that while they respected their opponents, his men owe it to themselves and the nation to progress to the next round. There have been many examples in world football that prove that there are no more small teams in the game, said Chakoroma. But to be honest we have prepared hard for this and we really need to go all the way up to the final in this tournament. With due respect to the Mauritians, the Zimbabwean game is on the rise and as players we want to make our little contribution towards that growth. The defender-cum-midfielder returned home after a largely unsuccessful sojourn in South Africa, but quickly put that behind as he became the rock on which coach Tonderai Ndiraya s men built their foundation for success.Chakoroma still has unfinished business on the international scene and sees the CAF Confederation Cup as an opportunity to market himself. It s not necessarily about me as a player because the team comes first, but to be honest I have a strong feeling that I will make another move possibly to Europe before the end of the year. We have been talking amongst ourselves as players encouraging each other, covering for each other s mistakes and I am sure we will go far. The 22-year-old Chakoroma has transformed himself from a centreback into a defensive linkman of repute and he will likely partner former Dynamos players Dominic Mukandi and Walter Mukanga in the centre of the park. Soccer Star of the Year finalist Godknows Murwira, leftback Qadr Amini and dribbling wizard Donald Teguru are also expected to play a key role here.The last time a Zimbabwean team came to Mauritius was in July 2013, when the Warriors demolished the hosts 3-0 in CHAN first round first leg match.