Deputy Minister MusiiwaRunyararo Muzavazi and Tatenda Charamba Deputy Minister of Health and Child Care Aldrin Musiiwa has applauded the Seventh Day Adventist Church (SDA) for its significant role in the development of the country s educational and health sectors. He was speaking during the Adventist Health Professionals Conference where the SDA invited health experts from all over the continent to educate people on various health issues, which include non-communicable diseases, infection control and public health ethics.Deputy Minister Musiiwa said the SDA has always partnered Government in promoting health and education. Your church is applauded for supporting the education system in Zimbabwe ever since the establishment of the then Solusi College in 1894. You are now proud owners of a total of 146 primary and secondary schools and one university. That makes you an organisation with the highest number of schools in Zimbabwe apart from Government. In September 2010, the Government launched the e-Government programme, which was an effort to promote the running and offering of Government services through the electronic mode, which was adopted by SDA educational institutions like Anderson High School, Nyazura High School and Fairview Primary, he said.The minister also commended SDA educational institutions for being exemplary by displaying good behaviour. Our country has benefited from being served by leaders that have been through SDA, for example the late Tarisai Ziyambi, (Vice President) John Landa Nkomo and (Dr) Naomi Nhiwatiwa, he said.Through its humanitarian organisation, Adventist Development and Relief Agency (ADRA), the church has completed the construction of five dams in Zvishavane and has brought drought relief programmes to Binga, Gokwe and Masvingo districts where it sunk innumerable boreholes. The SDA church operates a number of Government-aided clinics dotted around the country. It is the duty of the Government to provide health services to the people, but the SDA church has been of great help in this regard. It is interesting to note that the Adventist church believes that the health message is the right arm of the gospel. The Government appreciates the health expos that are conducted around the country giving free treatment to people. In 2015, the Chitungwiza Health Expo attended to 34 000 people. Another major health expo was conducted in Gwanda last year. Let me take time to thank all the volunteers, donors and organisers of these expos, Deputy Minister Musiiwa said.Yesterday s conference was also attended by Mr Solomon Maphosa, the president of the SDA Southern Africa-Indian Ocean Division.