JOHANNESBURG. &#8211; National Prosecuting Authority head Shaun Abrahams ordered an investigation into advocate Gerrie Nel and other senior prosecutors just three days before Nel resigned. Abrahams asked a senior prosecutor in KwaZulu-Natal to provide him with a progress report relating to a complaint lodged against Nel and three senior advocates, for bringing the administration of justice into disrepute.News24 has learnt that Nel was part of a complaint a Laudium businessman laid against him and the prosecutors in Pretoria. Nel resigned on Monday to join lobby group AfriForum as head of its private prosecutions unit.The complaint, which was registered on December 20 last year, relates to an allegation of tampering with evidence. Speculation is rife among the legal fraternity that Nel was under some sort of pressure in the National Prosecuting Authority before he left, just five years before retirement, after a 36-year career. Insiders believe this complaint may have been the straw that broke the camel s back.Days before Nel s resignation, Abrahams responded to the complainant in a letter News24 has seen, indicating he was taking the allegations seriously.The letter titled Bringing the administration of justice into disrepute by virtue of the conduct of senior members of the National Prosecuting Service was signed on January 27. Abrahams allocated the complaint to the director of public prosecutions in KwaZulu-Natal, advocate Moipone Noko and asked for a progress report by February 24. I reiterate the seriousness of the allegations and remain committed to resolve this matter soonest, Abrahams wrote.While the letter by Abrahams does not mention who in the NPA is being looked into, the original complaint specifically names Nel and three senior NPA members in the Pretoria area.NPA spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku said they would be guided by Noko once her investigation had been completed. News24 learnt that the complainant in the matter had approached the Hawks with the case.Gauteng Hawks head General Prince Mokotedi confirmed this, but said a case against Nel had not been registered yet because they were waiting for the complainants to depose statements. We were approached this past weekend and we were arranging to meet the complainants with their lawyers this coming Friday. I have directed a senior investigator to look into that matter should the complainants and their lawyers revert to us, Mokotedi said.When Nel was asked if he was aware of the complaint against him and if this had anything to do with his resignation, he replied not at all .He did not comment further.The complainant is a businessman who has had four cases opened against him. All of them stem from a dispute he has had with a prominent family. &#8211; News24.