Herald Reporter&#8212;There is need for Parliament s watchdog to make an objective analysis of its legislative, representative and oversight roles, Speaker of the National Assembly Advocate Jacob Mudenda has said. Adv Mudenda said this during a signing ceremony of a Memorandum of Understanding between Parliament and Veritas, a non-governmental organisation performing a watchdog role on Parliament s activities.He said Veritas critical analysis of Parliament s legislative processes and that of its oversight promotes honesty and integrity. This is so because the truth is an antithesis of the lie. As such, the truth will always prevail in the span of time, no matter the vicissitudes of life. Let veracity, therefore, be the testimony of our implementation of this MoU that will be consummated by our signatures today, said Adv Mudenda. It is therefore my fervent hope that Veritas will assist Parliament in the objective and dispassionate analysis of Bills that will come under the consideration of Parliament. I am aware that Veritas has extensive constitutional and legal expertise necessary to achieve the intended outcomes of our MoU. Such competencies availed to us by Veritas must assist Parliament to undertake its legislative, representative and oversight roles more appropriately. He said the term Veritas meant truth and that showed Parliament was going into partnership with an organisation that valued the virtue of truth in legal analysis of policy issues coming before Parliament in particular and those affecting society in general. The truth is the hallmark and anchor in the crusade against ignorance. To that extent the tenet of truth is predicated upon the virtue of humility, the characteristic of being modest in the search for that which is honest, said Adv Mudenda. In this context, it is no wonder that one of our core values in Parliament is honesty. It is Parliament s undoubted hope that Veritas will live to up its nomenclature as it cooperates with Parliament through this MoU which must be driven by a sense of integrity. Veritas director Mrs Val Ingham-Thorpe assured Parliament that they would continue in their provision of honest and objective analysis of Parliament s activities. We are happy to formalise our relationship and we value the truth, said Mrs Ingham-Thorpe.The event was attended by Senate Deputy President Cde Chen Chimutengwende, Clerk of Parliament Mr Kennedy Chokuda and other senior staff at Parliament.