Paidamoyo Chipunza Senior Reporter THE ruling Zanu-PF party has rubbished claims that it was behind the disintegration of the Zimbabwe People First (ZimPF) by infiltration after the party s leadership traded expulsions yesterday. In separate interviews conducted by The Herald yesterday, Zanu-PF leaders described ZimPF as a weak party formed from a weak foundation and would not stand Zimbabwean politics.ZimPF leader, Dr Joice Mujuru yesterday sacked seven top officials namely; Messrs Rugare Gumbo, Didymus Mutasa, Kudakwashe Bhasikiti, Luckson Kandemiri, Munacho Mutezo, Ms Margaret Dongo, and Retired Colonel Claudious Makova.Later in the day, the seven responded by also firing Dr Mujuru saying they were tired of her dictatorial tendencies. Zanu-PF national political commissar Cde Saviour Kasukuwere said Zanu-PF had nothing to do with ZimPF squabbles, instead, he blamed ZimPF founders for forming a party out of anger.Cde Kasukuwere said this had led to the party s disintegration before it was solid enough to stand a national election. We have always said ZimPF is a weak party, formed on a weak foundation with weak leadership and will not go anywhere, said Cde Kasukuwere. He rubbished allegations that some of the leaders in ZimPF where actually Zanu-PF plants who had infiltrated the party resulting in repeated squabbles including the latest developments saying they were all Zanu-PF cadres who had infiltrated themselves. They all came from Zanu-PF, so they have infiltrated themselves. When you form a political party when you are angry, you do not get anywhere, said Cde Kasukuwere.Zanu-PF Women s League deputy secretary Cde Eunice Sandi-Moyo said Zanu-PF had nothing to do with Zim PF s disintegration as it was too busy working to deliver on its promises to the electorate. We are too busy to infiltrate any party. We promised many things to the people and we are busy working on that, she said. She said it was in the public domain that those who started the ZimPF project were no longer able to sustain it, hence it had been embroiled in many squabbles including the latest expulsions.Cde Sandi-Moyo however, said they were not expecting Dr Mujuru to expel anyone from her party since she also cried foul when she was expelled from Zanu-PF. She said her latest actions vindicated Zanu-PF as a party from expelling her when she was caught on the wrong side of the party s ideology. What this means is that (Dr) Joice Mujuru is acknowledging that if someone deviates from the party s ideology, they must be sacked. We are now vindicated as a party, she said.She also took a swipe at the expelled members saying they were an intolerant and impatient group of people experimenting with politics.Zanu-PF national youth leader Cde Kudzai Chipanga said ZimPF proved that it was cold outside the ruling party likening the latest developments to miscarriage of a pregnancy.