Joe WailerGodwin Muzari: Memory LaneMost musicians that took part at music galas that were held across the country to celebrate various national days and honour the nation s late icons will always cherish the days they performed in front of some of the biggest crowds at shows. So popular were the galas that could attract anything between 20 000 and 40 000 music followers. The galas rotated around provinces and were held in some remote parts of the country where seeing a huge line-up of popular musicians on the same stage seemed like a pipe dream. The events brought the dreams to reality.Many musicians used the events to amass popularity and fans that attended the shows still have many stories to tell about their experiences. The galas included 21st February Movement, Independence Concert, Umdala Wethu Gala, Heroes Splush, Mzee Bira and Unity Gala.Although some of these events are still being celebrated with musical gatherings, the level is below the way people partied all-night at the events that brought an exciting stretch in the history of local music.Most galas would go for more than 12 hours with a line-up of 30 or more musicians on stage. Among people that still cherish moments on stage before mammoth crowds is Gweru-based reggae crooner Joe Wailer who graced most galas using the stage name Uncle Joe.The musician says he witnessed biggest crowds on the local showbiz scene at the galas. He remembers performing for more than 30 000 people in Mutare at the Mzee Bira event. I could not believe my eyes when I went on stage. When we arrived at the venue we had to get police escort to enter the stadium because people were all over. It was not easy to make your way from the gate to the stage despite the fact that artistes had their own entrance, said Wailer. I was one of the few reggae performers at the gala and the reception we got was amazing. Most people did not know us when we went on stage, but the whole stadium shook when we began playing reggae vibes. It was a different beat from other performers that were mainly sungura singers. I can say it was my best performance on a local stage. Joe Wailer got slots to perform at most galas since he was from Midlands where a few musicians like Tongai Moyo, Bob Nyabinde, Man Soul Jah and Madiz represented the province at the national events.He has good memories of galas that include Unity Gala (Kariba), Mzee Bira (Mutare, Bindura and Beitbridge) and Umdala Wethu Gala (Marondera).The Unity Gala in Kariba is memorable for Joe Wailer because it was the first performance of his career. I had not done any shows. I had just recorded an album and my collaboration with Sku (Sikhululekile Mpofu) was doing well. We went together with Sku and I was backed by Crucial Mix at the show. It was not an easy task because I had not been on stage before and there were so many people at the event. I had to gather confidence to face the big crowd. I was surprised by the reception we got and that event boosted my confidence. I have been doing music over the years, but nothing beats experience that we had at national galas. I wish we could have more events of that nature to celebrate national events and bring together musicians from across the country. Joe Wailer has so far released six albums namely Beautiful Zimbabwe , Unite Africa , Rise and Shine , Not Afraid , Proud to be Rasta and The Solution .In fact, the album The Solution is still fresh, having been released in New York on Wednesday. His New York-based international manager Theresa Kemp released the album under her Evolutionary Music Management and Promotion label that has many international artistes.Joe Wailer got the international contract after his album Rise and Shine that was dedicated to World Cup soccer tournament in South Africa in 2010 caught the attention of international media.In 2012 Kemp arranged for the musician to perform at a festival in Jamaica and he cherished the experience.Kemp had previously organised another tour of Poland in 2010, which Joe Wailer failed to fulfil because of delays in visa processing. I am blessed to have an international manager like Theresa. She has done a lot for us. My music is available in many counties where their label has agents. She has linked me to reggae musicians in Jamaica and we are working on collaborations. The Solution was recorded at Tony G s Brainworx Studios in Harare. The eight-track album was mixed and mastered by Dr. Dread for Highgrade Productions.The album speaks about love, peace and unity. How good and how pleasant it would be, if we live together; how good and how pleasant it would be, if we live in peace. Zimbabwe, let us unite says Joe Wailer.The reggae album encourages Zimbabweans to unite and seek God s solution in every problem the nation is facing. Joe Wailer is a deeply spiritual person who draws a lot of inspiration from the late reggae legend, Joseph Hill, of the group Culture.Just like Joseph Hill, Joe Wailer sings more about peace, love, harmony and equal rights. His music deals with people s everyday lives and aspirations, including the spiritual side.Joe Wailer also identifies with the life of the poor. Lyrical themes include spirituality and religion, poverty, black pride and social issues.The musician is also the founder and festival director of the Midlands Arts and Culture Festival which promotes the development of the arts industry in the Midlands Province. MACfest Zimbabwe is a multi-disciplinary festival which promotes music, dance, theatre, visual arts, literary arts and Film.Efforts are underway to host this year s festival, which will be its 10th Anniversary, though in the recent past years, financial constraints have hampered the event.