One of the cancer survivors (left) receives flowersVongai Mbara Arts Reporter It was a heartfelt evening as cancer survivors walked down the runway celebrating how they had beaten the deadly disease at a fashion show held in Borrowdale, in Harare on Saturday evening. The artistes paid tribute to the event through dance, fashion and music as a way of telling people that the disease can be managed if it was diagnosed on time. The event that was meant to raise awareness and funds to the cancer patients saw Bulawayo singer I AM LANGA entertaining the crowd with her strong vocals and a marvellous performance.Fashion designers Sean Schoultz of Schoultz Designs, Chenna Nenni, Antoinette Marie, Shaista Ansari and Amy Peters of Adnp showcased their designs as part of the event. I am really chuffed it all came up well and our hard work paid off. I had an amazing experience for such a beautiful cause, said Shaista Ansari, one of the designers.Top Model Zimbabwe supported the event with its models that walked the runway.Cancer survivors that attended the event were presented with gifts and walked on the runway while everyone cheered.People who had come to witness the show took a moment of silence in remembering all the people that had lost their lives to cancer.One of the cancer survivors, Ana Scott gave an inspirational speech about cancer and encouraged everyone to be aware of the disease and go for regular screening. This disease carries no passport and it is a threat to everyone s life. I have been personally through it. I was doing very well, I was running, I was healthy, but it came to me. I spent eight months fighting this battle. Go for screening because this disease can be beaten if it is diagnosed early, she said.She also added that breast cancer did not affect women only and even men needed to take great care. Breast cancer is not a gender issue. It does not affect women only. Anyone with breast tissues is at the risk of getting cancer so everyone should be aware of it, said Ana.Cancer Association representatives also gave a solidarity message, including their oncologist who also delivered a cancer awareness speech.A lot of people came in to support the event buying tickets that were up for $10 and $30 for the VIP.Part of the funds that were raised at the event will be used to help cancer patients.