David and Victoria BeckhamAs she tried to focus on her own business by sharing products from her Spring/Summer collection on Monday, the backlash turned on her &#8211; with critics slamming her for her husband s emails and for using slim models. After sharing an image of her collection, one angry tweeter wrote: Anorexic chic was so yesterday! Another user accused the former Spice Girl of arrogance, adding: u had a small girl band a 100 yrs ago get over it. u r by no means a rock or any legend. move on honey. arrogant (sic). Then came the criticism over David s emails: Sorry your husband has lost the plot he said what he said he need to get over it. (sic) One quipped: Tell David its about time people can now see what he is really like. He stopped becoming a footballer when he met you. Victoria jetted out of the UK on Saturday as the storm began to swirl about the truth behind her husband s clean-cut image.However, rather than going for a subtle look to avoid attention, the fashion designer went all out to turn heads.Seemingly alone, the former Spice Girl remained stern-faced until she was in the building.Her appearance comes two days after she was being rushed through London s Heathrow airport on Saturday following reports that her husband David was a victim of a 1 million blackmail plot over hacked emails.It comes as MPs hit out against a potential bend it for Beckham rule for the rich and famous amid claims the former footballer was advised by Whitehall on how to fit the Knighthood criteria.The politicians said today that celebrities should be treated no differently to ordinary members of the public when it comes to taxes and the honours systems.The comments come amid reports that Beckham was on the verge of becoming Sir David in 2014 until a last-minute red flag intervention from HMRC due to his involvement in an alleged tax avoidance scheme.Insiders confirmed there was effectively then horse-trading between a Whitehall committee and the superstar s advisers to sort out the issues raised by HMRC.Rosena Allin-Khan, Labour s shadow culture minister, today said it was incredibly wrong while Lib Dem MP John Pugh, a member of the influential Public Accounts Committee, said the same rules should apply for everyone.Beckham and his PR machine have been left reeling after Friday s release of 18,6 million emails and documents hacked by the Football Leaks website from the servers of Doyen Global, the firm run by the ex-footballer s PR chief Simon Oliveira.According to the revelations, the Honours Committee had already agreed that Beckham s nomination &#8211; almost certainly proposed by his PR advisers &#8211; was well merited before a routine check of his tax affairs.The leaked emails also include a number of bombshells and series of sweary-rants and may even have been used as part of a 1million blackmail plot. In one message the ex-England captain allegedly claims singer Katherine Jenkins, 36, got an OBE for singing at the rugby and going to see the troops plus taking coke . He allegedly wrote the private message after he missed out on a knighthood, while other emails are said to show him call the honours committee unappreciative. Jenkins hit back at Beckham after he allegedly branded her OBE award a joke.She was given an OBE in the 2014 New Year Honours for her services to music and charity.Her manager, Professor Jonathan Shalit, told Dan Wootton at The Sun that she deserved her award for her charity work and music career.A spokesman for Beckham said: This story is based on outdated material taken out of context from hacked and doctored private emails from a third party server and gives a deliberately inaccurate picture. Dailymail.