Lionel Depute Herald Reporter Iran has commended the excellent political relations with Zimbabwe and urged the strengthening of trade and economic ties between the two countries. Speaking at the commemorations of the National Day of the Islamic Republic of Iran in Harare on Friday, incoming Iranian Ambassador to Zimbabwe Mr Ahmad Erfanian said his government will strengthen trade relations that have been low because of trade sanctions that were imposed on Iran by Western countries. Despite the excellent political relations that exist between the two countries, the volume of trade is not what is expected, he said. I will devote all of my efforts to work towards strengthening economic and trade relations with Zimbabwe. With the implementation of the nuclear deal with six powers, sanctions against Iran have been lifted and there is no restriction to expanding the trade relations between the two countries. Deputy Foreign Affairs Minister Edgar Mbwembwe said relations between Iran and Zimbabwe dated back to the liberation struggle. We celebrate this historic and momentous day fully cognisant of the close relations that so happily exist, between the Republic of Zimbabwe and the Islamic Republic of Iran, he said. These strong bonds of friendship and solidarity have been mutually nurtured before and after Zimbabwe s independence. Deputy Minister Mbwembwe said Government will continue to make the visible relations stronger for the people s benefit. We remain committed to maintain this momentum to further strengthen these relations for the benefit of our people, he said. Deputy Minister Mbwembwe highlighted a number of projects that were imitated with the support of the Iranian government in the previous years, including Zimbabwe-Iran Joint Commission and scholarships for Zimbabweans in medicine and engineering. We have consulted and mutually implemented wide ranging programmes and projects undertaken in the past years, he said. (These include) the Zimbabwean-Iran Joint Commission, scholarships for Zimbabwean students, the visit by secretary of Foreign Affairs Ambassador Joey Bimha in November 2016 and cooperation in the small and medium enterprises and cooperative sector. Deputy Minister Mbwembwe said the pending visit by the Speaker of Parliament Advocate Jacob Mudenda to Tehran was also evidence of cordial relations between the two countries.The month of February marks the 38th anniversary of the Islamic Revolution in Iran.The Islamic Revolution gained its final victory on February 11 in 1979, after years of struggle, self-sacrifice and resistance under the leadership of Imam Khomeini.