Minister NcubeSophie Chese-Msowa Arts Correspondent Government is committed to the development of the creative and culture industry in order to assist artists to contribute to the economy, Minister of Rural Development, Promotion and Preservation of National culture and Heritage Abednigo Ncube has said. Addressing a press conference on the commissioning of the Zimbabwe Pavilion at the Venice Biennale in Harare yesterday, Minister Ncube appreciated the efforts by the National Gallery of Zimbabwe to support creativity through the provision of local and internal exhibitions.He said the Government is committed to the development of the creative and culture industry. We would like to see this industry make a significant contribution to the national fiscus. The fourth priority area expressed in the arts, culture and heritage policy which was passed by cabinet stresses the importance of artists seeing themselves as business persons. Artists contribute to the economy through their own products and services, he said.He said artists promote unity in society. Artists are critical in promoting unity and social cohesion over and above their contribution to better livelihoods, he said. He said the Government has over the years supported visual arts industry by funding their seven month showcase in having a pavilion and four artists. The Zimbabwean Pavilion has been the only one from Africa that has been consistently supported by its Government. The Zimbabwean Pavilion at the Biennale is a diplomatic platform to project our culture and heritage to the global arena, he said.Four artists who are going to be representing Zimbabwe in Italy this May are Syvester Mubayi, Admire Kamudzengerere, Charles Bhebhe and Dana Whabira. The artists said their appointment to represent Zimbabwe came as a shock to all of them. I was surprised when I received the call, I have just arrived from Bulawayo, I am still yet to believe that this is happening maybe I will believe it when I am there, said Admire Kamudzengerere.Curator Raphael Chikukwa will accompany the visual artists to Italy.