Shepherd Chimururi Cool Lifestyle Correspondent Chitungwiza-based Pathway School is on a full throttle to implement the technological aspects of the new curriculum through introduction of technological research centre, computer laboratory and ICT club. For a long time school clubs have been the bedrock of life after school skills. The school writers clubs have churned out journalists and book authors, the choirs have motivated celebrated singers, the drama clubs have groomed television actors, the Scripture Union clubs have inspired pastors, the debate clubs have nurtured lawyers and the agriculture club has given bred farmers.The new curriculum that has its roots in technology demands that each school must have an Information, Communication and Technology (ICT) club that can nurture, groom and inspire tech giants.In an interview with Cool Lifestyle, the Pathway Primary school headgirl Nokutenda Carol Zuze (12) said they are enjoying learning using technology. At our research centre we have softwares and programmes that make us research and learn about different subjects like mathematics, English and the general paper. Mostly we use the Encyclopedia Britannia which has books that we don t have in class. When it comes to composition writing we first go to the research centre and we research on the story like the topic of pets on how they live, what they eat, the different types and how they are cared etc. Microsoft word is also good when it comes to English grammar and punctuation and we verify if it wrong use spell check. We also type our compositions. We also have some programmes for relaxing which are paint and games. We also do name tags design and the teacher prints for us, she said.Grade Seven pupil Marlon Mapepa (12) who wants to be the aircraft engineer shared his sentiments. My favourite place at the school is the research centre. I enjoy researching about my beloved profession to be. I use the maths genius softwares to do some equations, division and subtraction. I also use the JW library that has different bible books which I also enjoy researching on certain people in the Bible like prophets and kings. At first we were guided by our teacher Mrs Buusiwe Khanye but now we all do it ourselves. We go twice a week and every time we learn new things. Takudzwa Mutingwende (15), a Form Three pupil, thanked his ICT teacher Gotamie Jakos for empowering him with ICT skills. When I came to this school I didn t know anything about computers but now I know how not only to operate but I also assemble a desktop. I assembled my own machine after I bought the parts myself. The teacher encourages us to do computational thinking. Though I want to be a mechanical engineer. For relaxing I make my own dancehall riddims and do video mixing using virtual DJ software, he said.The school is working towards forming an ICT club that will tackle project based skills like programming and robotics as well as equipping every classroom with tablets as education is becoming more and more paperless substituting excise books and textbooks.The primary mandate of the ICT club will be to increase students abilities in ICT and to allow students to use their skills in developing ICT within and outside the school environment.Strengthening and togetherness among students who are interested in ICT is crucial in raising funds for acquiring resources necessary for the ICT department at the school. Students can use the ICT club platform to disseminate ICT knowledge and skills. Integrating student training enterprise (virtual companies) in the ICT clubs is an excellent idea that allows students to practice their skills.Organise various training sessions to empower members. Training such as communication skills, presentation skills, computer usage skills, interview and CV writing skills, video editing skills, web design, blog, creating of business documents, software installation, creating application softwares, basic computer troubleshooting skills, etc, are vital for ICT club members.Some of the activities that the club can engage in are to share club activities as well as gathering information. Use social media to create blog, fan page, facebook, skype, chats etc.Students can teach each other on the use of search engine for information gathering. Club Patrons should be open to consultation and sharing and share with other patrons. Create your contacts database of like-minded club partners and stakeholders.The club can organise a computer day at the school as well as invite an ICT expert to be a guest speaker or facilitator. Students like guest speakers! More interesting you can make tours to organisations whose operations are deeply ingrained in ICT like telecommunications and IT gadgets assembling companies.The history of innovators seem to suggest that many active students who developed simple gadgets or did successful project while still at school in their respective clubs have gone on to make bigger innovations in life.ICT clubs are among the top skills developing tools that gives Zimbabwe hope of having tech-giants in the future.Shepherd Chimururi executive director &#8211; Dzidzo Inhaka Audio Visual Learning: Mobile:+263 772 608 276 [email&#160;protected] www.dzidzoinhaka.co.zw