Caravan Park entranceTawanda Marwizi Lifestyle Correspondent Caravan Park has become the place to be in Zvishavane as it offers various services in the small town.It has brought a fresh outing dimension to outing in the town that is dominated by panners and students. While college students frequent the place, it has also spread wings to weddings, musical shows and conferences.Cliff Mataga the director of the place said their vision is to a different style of leisure to Zvishavane. Zvishavane might be small but the infrastructure is competitive and we need to offer something nice. We are heading there, he said. The good part is the place allows us to have as many functions as we can, leaving more room for us to develop it. We are making developments that will allow people to come from Harare and have their weddings here, he added.He is happy that people already appreciate the place although he feels there is need to do more. People are coming here for their weddings, musical shows and parties among other activities, but I feel I have to do more for the place, he said.What makes caravan park cut about the rest in the mining town?Unlike other places in town, it accommodates various activities and several corporates have found a meeting place. We are doing what we know best to accommodate everyone at the place. We can have at least three different events at the same time. Musical shows have their own arena that does not interfere with other activities here, he said.They have set up the place in a way that accommodates all types of merrymakers. Dancehall shows attract the youths while some other shows attracts mature crowd, so we have a set-up that accommodates all these type of music fans, he said.He said on March 4 they have joined hands with 2 Kings Entertainment to bring Winky D to the place.2 Kings director Dee Nosh said it was good to have venues of such magnitude in Zvishavane. We are in business and we take musicians to different parts of the country. We are happy to have such venues in places like Caravan Park in Zvishavane, he said.Nosh said there was need for them to embrace such places for the benefit of the community.