Tanaka Vunganai Herald Reporter The Zimbabwe National Army has set a fundraising target of $500 000 that will go towards assisting various charities across the country. Speaking at the launch of the 2017 Army Charities fundraising campaign at KG VI Military Headquarters on Friday, ZNA commander Lieutenant General Philip Valerio Sibanda said economic challenges being faced in the country meant that more support was needed for the campaign. In 2016, we set ourselves a fundraising target of $500 000, guided by the wish list from various charities supported by the ZNA, but due to the harsh economic challenges, we did not achieve the target, he said. Despite this harsh economic environment, you, ladies and gentlemen, contributed towards the $238 666 in cash and kind. You are aware that as the economy continues to experience difficulties, the number of vulnerable people in that economy increases. This is the situation we find ourselves in and this means that your continued support is required, more now than at any other time during the existence of the army charities. Lt Gen Sibanda said ZNA charities had started the year on a good note after recording a 70 percent increase in school fees paid for needy children. We have paid out $22 500 in school fees for all levels, a 70 percent increase on last year s payments for the same period, he said. This is a clear indication that your donations in cash and kind have had a positive effect on new beneficiaries of the Army Schools Welfare Trust. Other beneficiaries to the fundraising include Tsanga Lodge Convalescent Centre in Nyanga, ZNA Widows and Orphans Fund, Army Patients Welfare Fund and ZNA Benevolent Fund.Lt Gen Sibanda announced that ZNA will host the 5th Charities Soccer Shield Tournament, with only four instead of eight premiership teams playing, due to lack of sponsorship. Dynamos Football Club, Caps United, Highlanders and FC Platinum have been invited to participate, he said. The semi-final matches will be played concurrently in Harare and Bulawayo on 26 February. The Army Charities Ball will be held on April 7, while the annual Bakers Inn and Army Charities Dinner Dance and Golf Tournament will take place in Bulawayo between September 1 and 2 .The Charity Horse Race will be held on October 7.ZNA concluded the campaign by presenting a sum of $1 500 to Zimpapers journalists Lawson Mabhena and Shamiso Yikoniko towards the recovery needs of their baby, Manqoba, who had a successful liver transplant in India last year.The army has undertaken over 93 projects throughout the country, working with corporates such as CBZ Bank and FBC Bank.