BronCleer is one of the most popular substances being abused by Zimbabwean youthsDr Sacrifice Chirisa Mental Health Matters There has been an undeniable upsurge of illicit drug use in Zimbabwe, which, as a result of this trend, has led to an increase in mental health issues directly and indirectly. Substances being abused include, but are not limited to BronCleer aka Bronco, Cannabis, Maragada, Diazepam, Musombodhiya, Steriods, Tegu-Tegu and Zed. Abuse of drugs hijacks the dopamine (a pleasure neuro-transmitter in the brain) activated pleasure centre in the brain. The drugs cause an above normal release and increase of dopamine in this centre that causes a person to experience pleasure and look for more of the drug to experience that level of pleasure outside the natural pleasurable activities.Unfortunately, the same neurotransmitter (Dopamine) at high levels causes psychotic symptoms; hallucination (hearing voices of people not there or seeing things not there) delusion, disorganisation and violent behaviour.This result in the user ending up in a psychiatric unit.Several organisations and institutions have been doing their best to intervene in the dire situation. Organisations such as Anti-Drug Abuse Association of Zimbabwe, the First Step With Addiction Recovery Trust, Alcoholics Anonymous in Zimbabwe, Highlands Halfway House in Harare, have been adding to the over-subscribed Government psychiatric units in managing and rehabilitating some of the drug users. Eliminating an addiction from an individual is a complicated process and could be overwhelming.However, with specialist direction and the right backing, the recovery process is a lot less terrifying and much more exhilarating with the passing of each day. Research has found that preventing adolescence use of drugs could be the best primary strategy aimed at preventing drug addiction.Early use of drugs during this critical period of development increases a person s chances of developing an addiction. So by preventing young adolescent boys and girls from experimenting with drugs, we can prevent drug addiction. Teenagers will still be developing judgment and decision-making skills and would not have reached maturity to accurately assess the risks of all of these forms of drug use.Furthermore, using drugs at this age can disrupt brain function in areas critical to motivation, memory, learning, judgment, and behaviour control.It is therefore not surprising that teenagers that abuse alcohol and other related drugs often have family and social problems, poor academic performance and mental health issues.For an adult, a divorce, loss of a job or stressful job and relationships may lead and predispose to drug abuse.In this instalment, I devoured to explain drug abuse and how it has become paramount to develop appropriate strategies to address this destructive phenomenon in both teens and young adults. Because missing this age group can be counted as a missed opportunity to nip drug abuse.Next week I will look at Schizophrenia, the most misunderstood psychiatric condition in the community.DISCLAIMER: This column contains information about MENTAL HEALTH RELATED ISSUES. However, the information is not advice, and should not be treated as such. The writer accepts no responsibility for misuse and misrepresentation caused by the use or misunderstanding of this article. No warranties or assurances are made in relation to the safety and content of this article and attachments. Sender accepts no liability for any damage caused by or contained in any attachments. No liability is accepted for any consequences arising from this article. Dr S.M. Chirisa is a passionate mental health specialist who holds an undergraduate medical degree and post graduate Master s degree in psychiatry both from the University of Zimbabwe. He is currently working as a Senior Registrar in the Department of Psychiatry at Parirenyatwa Group of Hospitals and is also the current national treasurer of the Zimbabwe Medical Association (ZiMA)