Ellina Mhlanga: Sports ReporterZIMBABWE Netball Association president Leticia Chipandu is anticipating a tough competition when the Under-21 team battles it out with some of the top countries at the World Youth Cup in July. The tournament will be staged in Botswana from July 8 to 16. There are 20 countries divided into four pools of five teams and Zimbabwe are in Pool B together with Australia, South Africa, Barbados and Singapore.Australia were the losing finalists in the last edition and South Africa are regarded as one of the powerhouse in Africa.Chipandu said they are aware of the task ahead and they are leaving no stone unturned as they seek to make an impression on their debut appearance at the world event. My expectations are that we will play our best. We want to make sure we get recognition on the quality of play that we are displaying. I would want us to finish second or third in our pool. South Africa, we have beaten them before and these are the same players. Australia, we have not seen their juniors playing but the seniors. So we don t know how they play. It s huge for us playing Australia. But being the newcomers to the World Cup, we have nothing to lose, so we will give it our best, said Chipandu.Chipandu said the team s first camp is pencilled for April. We are going to have a major camp in April. Most of the Under-21s are students. It s going to be for the whole month. They will then regroup two weeks before departure. We really want the coaches to work on the combinations. We can t leave anything to chance because we are in a difficult group. We are hoping to have a friendly with Zambia or Malawi. This is in our plan but it will only materialise if we get funding, said Chipandu.Besides the World Youth Cup, the national association is also running around to ensure the senior team is ready for the African Championships scheduled for later this year in Uganda.Zimbabwe are the defending champions after emerging winners in 2015.Both the senior and junior teams have done well under difficult circumstances as lack of funds continue to hinder their efforts. The national association depends mostly on subscriptions from clubs to run their programmes.Their secretary-general, Barbra Rice, said the teams have the potential to be among the world s best if only they could get more support. The main challenge we are facing is financial. We have the World Cup and the Africa Championships, we are supposed to defend in Uganda. We were invited by South Africa for a friendly because England were coming but unfortunately we could not go because of financial constraints. It was supposed to be us, South Africa, Botswana and England. Right now we rely on subscriptions by clubs and the season has not yet started. The league is starting in March, so from there we will see if we can afford some friendly matches, said Rice.For the World Youth Cup the team needs $45 000 to cover all costs including preparations.