Tawanda Marwizi Arts Correspondent &#8212; Yesteryear musician Zexie Manatsa is back in the studio for a duet with gospel singer Mathias Mhere that will be released in March. The duet is expected to feature on Mhere s coming album Old Testament that will be launched at 7 Arts in Avondale. Manatsa said it was good that the young musicians are appreciating him and his works. Before I even became a pastor, music was said to be for the poor but we managed to send children to school through proceeds from music and it was good, he said.He said he is a pastor with tight schedules but he would be back in the studio with Mhere. Yes he approached me and I have no problem with that. I will be in the studio with him, he said.Mhere said he has learnt a lot from Manatsa. He is like a father to me and I have learnt a lot. He has played a very big role in the development of music in Zimbabwe, he said.Some of the songs to feature on the album are Error , Dhindindi Full Time , Nhamo Yekuzvipa , Nyasha Ndini , Mazuva Matatu and ByeBye and Vana VaJesu that features Mkululi Bhebhe.Renowned gospel music producer Laiton Ngolomi has worked on the album.Ngolomi said it was good to work with Mhere again on the album that will feature great musicians. It is good to have musicians like Manatsa and Bhebhe on an album. I am happy to be part of the project that is likely to take the industry by storm, he said.Bethen Pasinawako will be on the backing vocals while another renowned musician is tipped to feature on some of the songs.At the launch several gospel musicians that include Rev Chivaviro, Fungisai, Sebastain Magacha and Mechanic Manyeruke will be performing. All the artistes have confirmed their participation at the launch. We are working to have a show that excites people and we will preach the word through music, he said.Mhere first recorded an album titled Tinoda Nyasha in 2008 but failed to make an impact on the local market.He found his glory in 2012 with album Anoita Minana followed by Nguva Yenyasha, that was released in 2013.