Vongai Mbara Arts Reporter &#8212; A lot of filmmakers are facing financial challenges which has in turn affected their content and production processes. The film industry in Zimbabwe has deteriorated due to a number of factors which include lack of funding and piracy. Fedrick Moyo, a local film maker who has done quite a number of projects including Zimdancehall Stories said lack of funding was affecting his work. I am the writer, director as well as the editor. Our hope is to get people to support the arts with adequate funding because passion alone cannot sustain the industry. We have lots of stories to tell but we lack the means hence I end up doing everything that could be done by specialists. Founder of Creative Arts Zimbabwe and filmmaker Brian Kugara took to Facebook to share concerns over how lack of funding was also affecting content. It is sad how the issue of funding is affecting our stories. Filmmakers are now doing copy and paste story-lines and focusing on HIV/Aids and cancer issues which they know will attract sponsorship. At the end of the day we have similar stories and it will be as if y0u are watching the same film with a different tittle and actors, he posted.Another filmmaker Edwin Jaulani said lack of funding was leading to poor production because there will be no money for some production necessities In my experience lack funding has limited me in terms of locations, wardrobe, makeup and hair, transport, accommodation and props. This means when I am writing my story has to be within the budget and accessible location, he said.He also went on to agree with Kugara saying the kind of films being produced in Zimbabwe are just telling the same stories that attract sponsors. Most movies produced in Zimbabwe have story lines to do with girl child, domestic violence and Aids. This is a sign that we are still writing movies to lure sponsors. I wish we could have new story lines that are modern and unthinkably unique, he said.Despite the uneasy situation, these filmmakers are putting effort to move forward in producing authentic films that tell true Zimbabwean stories.