Dr Killer Zivhu (left), Ms Rukudzo Ndowa of Champions Insurance, musician Suluman Chimbetu and Kuwadzana MP Cde Betty Nhambu Kaseke hand over goods to Janet Makwena and Nesta Chifamba at Tamuka Children s Home in Kuwadzana, Harare, yesterday. (Picture by John Manzongo)Innocent Ruwende: Senior ReporterRenowned philanthropist Dr Killer Zivhu yesterday officially launched a foundation in his name at Tamuka Children s Home in Kuwadzana, Harare, which will mobilise funds to assist the underprivileged. Dr Zivhu is on record saying his works to help the disadvantaged are inspired by First Lady Amai Grace Mugabe, who is looking after several orphaned children in Mazowe through her Grace Mugabe Foundation.Apart from looking after the orphans, the First Lady has been donating various items to the disadvantaged, especially children, throughout the country.Speaking at the launch of the Killer Zivhu Foundation, Dr Zivhu said he was offering himself to mobilising resources to help the underprivileged. I have given my life to the foundation, which will raise funds for the underprivileged, said Dr Zivhu. I have teamed up with musicians Suluman Chimbetu and Mathias Mhere. We will hold musical shows to raise money for charity, among other methods of fundraising. We have more than 4 000 albinos in Harare alone, who require assistance to buy skin lotions which are very expensive. Even if it means going door to door to fund raise, we are prepared to do that. We also want to present a building to Tamuka Children s Home at the end of this year. We cannot have as many as 40 children sharing a three-bedroomed house. Dr Zivhu said he will drill a borehole at Tamuka Foundation Farm to enable founder Ms Veronica Kwati and several orphans she takes care of to grow their own crops and stop depending on donations.At the occasion, Dr Zivhu donated more than 500 pairs of shoes to people living with albinism and urged them to engage in self-help projects, saying they could not beg for the rest of their lives. The problem is that you reject yourself before anyone else rejects you, he said. We are all the same, so you should go out there and compete without looking down upon yourself. Dr Zivhu donated various goods to the children s home and said he will assist another student at the home who completed A-level. Kuwadzana House of Assembly member Cde Betty Nhambu Kaseke thanked Dr Zivhu for assisting the children s home, which is in her constituency. Dr Zivhu is doing wonders at this home, she said. He is sending several children to school up to university level. We want to appreciate that and urge other individuals and corporates to emulate him. We will support the Killer Zivhu Foundation in building an orphanage for Tamuka Foundation Farm. We will also assist to make sure that they embark on various fund raising projects at their farm. A Midlands State University student, Tatenda Manyenga, who is one of the several students benefiting from Dr Zivhu s philanthropic work at the home, thanked him for his generosity. Dr Zivhu is God-given, she said. He is currently paying school fees for 25 students at our university only. We want to thank him for supporting Tamuka Foundation. Chimbetu said he would rope in other musicians to help fund raise for the Killer Zivhu Foundation.