Lloyd Gumbo Senior Reporter Zimbabwe Youth Council executive director Mr Livingstone Dzikira s resumption of work at the council irked a parliamentary committee on Thursday after it emerged that he did so without official confirmation from the parent ministry. It is understood that Mr Dzikira had left ZYC in September 2015 to pursue studies in China until 2018.He, however, returned in July last year and resumed his duties as the ZYC boss without official communication from the Ministry of Youth which had been informed that he would be away for three years.Youth, Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment permanent secretary Mr George Magosvongwe said he was not aware of Mr Dzikira s resumption of duty. There was a period when I was on leave, so it could have happened then, but I am not aware of the letter of Mr Dzikira s return to work, said Mr Magosvongwe. I did not receive any documents (to that effect) when I came back. Mr Magosvongwe said he did not even revoke Mr Sungano Chisina s appointment as acting executive director of the ZYC until 2018.He referred further questions to director of operations in the ministry, Mr Elias Murinda, who was involved in Mr Dzikira s return to work. All I can confirm is that Mr Dzikira came back on July 1, 2016 when he told us that he had adjusted his training programme, said Mr Murinda.But committee chairperson Cde Justice Mayor Wadyajena (Zanu-PF) asked him how Mr Dzikira had returned to work without official communication from the ministry.He asked if it was proper for an official, who had informed the permanent secretary that he would return in 2018 to come back to work without communication. Are there no formalities done since he left and signed letters that he is going for three years so when he came back, how did you reinstate him? We are seeing he is still on leave until 2018 according to the documents in our possession. Can you please tell us how you operate? Can somebody just go away and come back willy-nilly? queried Cde Wadyajena.Mr Murinda responded: Normally, a person would have to fill in assumption of duty forms. He was asked to give the committee resumption of duty forms that Mr Dzikira signed, but he could not avail them.