LONDON. &#8211; Jose Mourinho will sit down with Manchester United at the end of the season to discuss a 12-month extension. The Special One signed a three-year deal when he joined United at the start of this campaign. And United chiefs believe he is the man to bring back the glory days to Old Trafford and want him to commit to another year. There will also be a provision for an additional 12-month option on top of it if the club activate the clause.Ex-Chelsea boss Mourinho has two-and-a-half-years left on his 12m-a-year contract. And if he signs all his extensions, he could be in the Old Trafford hot-seat until at least 2022.SunSport understands he will not receive any more money for increasing the length of his contract, but will get bonuses for success. A United source said: The club want to discuss extending Jose s contract when the season ends. There s an option for another 12-months should the guys upstairs want it, depending on trophies and the such. He is loved here already, and has the fans on his side. It has a feeling of something special starting. The owners are on board for the additional year. They love having him here at the moment. Mourinho is hoping to bring United a 21st league title within the next two years.But the Red Devils have a battle to grab a Champions League spot as they lie sixth in the Premier League. The ex-Real Madrid chief replaced Louis van Gaal in July after the Glazer family owners wanted a change of approach.Mourinho has already planned out his summer spending, and is expected to splash out around 150m to 200m.His main target is to bring in Atletico Madrid striker Antoine Griezmann for 80m.Meanwhile, Mourinho has given Phil Jones back his confidence and restored his belief he can be long-term Manchester United player.Jones was touted as a future England captain as a teenager by Sam Allardyce at Blackburn Rovers and Sir Alex Ferguson believed he could become one of United s greatest after making the switch from Ewood Park in 2011.And that backing is now being replicated by Mourinho after the Portuguese brought him back into the side in November. I feel there have been only three managers who have every truly believed in me and understood me as a player, Jones told MEN Sport. That s not being critical of other managers but the only three were Sam Allardyce, Sir Alex Ferguson and now Jose Mourinho. They have all given me belief and confidence. I am not one who needs to be patted on the back every single day and told I am brilliant. Some players need that, I don t. But those three certainly gave me confidence. Jose, for instance, this season has just given me so much confidence in training. You make a mistake and it is just a case of so what, get on with it . You just get that vibe from certain managers that you are liked and you are comfortable with them. You go into training and you just now when someone likes you, and someone doesn t. You know. You don t need anybody to tell you. Last season under Louis van Gaal Jones suffered a knee injury in January and didn t play for the Reds first team again until November.But he wasn t unable to play during that period. I was on the bench at Wembley in the FA Cup final and during the last two months of the final season of Van Gaal last year I was fit and playing. I was just made to play reserve games, he added. For whatever reason he thought I needed to be fitter. I had no problem with that, I just played the games. I did what I could do to get back in the team and unfortunately it didn t really work out under him. But again that is football, some players are liked and some players aren t. No question there were thoughts about my future. It was in the back of my mind. If you are not playing games that speaks volumes. I said to myself at the start of the season that if someone believes in me and gives me the chance I know I am more than capable of delivering for the manager. Jose has done that. Hopefully if I stay fit and keep playing well the it well be at Manchester United because there is no better club to be at. The manager has given me the confidence to go to the next stage. I have always said from day dot if somebody comes in and they give me a chance to play and play regularly then they will get the best out of me. &#8211; The Sun.