When the children of Israel finally made it to the Promised Land, there was never a place up to now where they discovered milk and honey flowing. It was a metaphor God used. The Promised Land signifies a place which, when you discover it, anything you do there will flow. It is a land that helps you discover the milk and honey that you are carrying, a land that has the grace to help you flow. In your rightful place you do not struggle, you will just put 20 percent effort of what you are putting now and you will flow. It is a place where you can function freely without pain.What pains the most is that the majority of people are never there, they are functioning in wrong places. These are some of the things that can help you discover your Promised Land:Know Where You AreBefore you know your Promised Land you have to know where you are first. If you want to discover your Promised Land, discover your Egypt first.Where are you situated currently?You have to know this because it wouldn t be good for you to search for what you already have.You do not want a situation whereby you look for a new place when you have not yet discovered what is wrong with your old place.As you start your journey of discovering your Promised Land, first discover where you are. If you do not know where you are even if we give you a map you will not find your way back home.Look at where you are and admit that you are in a wrong place. If you do not admit that you will lose energy to move from that place.Discover where you are, describe where you are and give where you are a name. Know the place because you do not want to leave one place that is wrong and move into the next place that is equally wrong.You must be able to describe what makes the place you are, a wrong place for a person like you.Do not move an inch until you name that place.Hate it with passion before you can exit it.Do not try to alter a situation before you can understand it.If God is to bless you and restore you, give Him the name of the place where you are. God is not going to tell you that you are poor, but you have to tell yourself.Investigate your surrounding and what is happening around you.Identify authorised peopleto lead youIdentify authorised people or leaders that should lead you. These people have to be authorised, appointed and anointed by God to lead and deliver you out of that place where you are. For you to identify some of them they will make you angry, insult your comfort, undermine your luxury or make you feel small and yet they have the ability to make you big.Do not just move around with people that are surprised by your small success and give you names. It is not every person that can bless you.Do not have people that are broke always laying hands on your head. If they cannot touch money, your head is more expensive and you should value it.They can pray for you, but not lay their hands on you. Remember Peter and John? Before they could pray for the lame man on the beautiful gate they told him to look at them. Before anyone can lay his hands on you look at him and find out if he qualifies and if he is authorised.There is no man that can offer you what he does not have.If you do not have healing, money or a blessing you cannot share what you do not have.Always look for people that have conquered in your places of weakness. These authorised people are your mentors, heroes and achievers that are within your proximity.These are people that have made it, identify them. A person cannot impart what he does not have. Sometimes the reason why you are discouraged and grounded is because of certain words that were spoken by unauthorised people in your life and you believed them.That is why any person can curse you and it matters to you. You get worried so much because you have not identified authorised people who can speak into your life. If such people bless you, what everyone else says it does not matter. Find authorised people, people that you admire.Identify A God Sent DesireYou have many desires that you have right now, but there is a God sent desire. God can either send a person to deliver you from a place or He can send a desire. There is a Moses desire that can deliver you.This desire is an internal aggression that calls for a relocation. There is pressure that comes in the inside of you like Jeremiah who at one point promised not to talk about the name of God anymore, but the moment he said that it was like fire shut up in his bones and he could not keep quiet. (Jeremiah 20:9) Even the apostle Paul at one point also said, . . . woe is unto me if I preach not the gospel . (1 Corinthians 9:16.) It means Paul might have tried not to preach, but it was like warfare in his Spirit.There is a God sent desire that comes upon you, even the moment you go to bed it sits next to you. You can wake up in the middle of the night and start to think about it, you cannot sleep anymore. That is how you know that there is a God sent desire which is like a Moses that has come to take you out of your place.It is an internal energy aggression to want to relocate, a desire from God. If you feel you are in a wrong place that is a God sent desire. Of the many desires that are in your life right now, some of which you are trying to get rid of, there is one desire you should not resist, a God sent desire.There are things you desire and yet it is not you desiring those things. There are things that a pregnant woman desires and yet it is not her desires but the baby s desires. The moment the baby comes out the mother is no longer interested in those same things which means that there is an impartation of desire. You also have to know that desiring to make money is not your own desire, but it is a God sent desire, it never originated from you. You can feel like you really want to achieve and make more money, but that might not be you, it is a God sent desire inside of you. Do not quench it, fight it or ignore it because it is a God sent desire. God likes gold and that is why He has it all over Him in heaven. If the same God enters into you, you will also like what He likes.https://www.facebook.com/prophetEMakandiwahttps://twitter.com/prmakandiwahttps://www.instagram.com/emmanuelmakandiwa/Helpline+263 4 339 341[email&#160;protected]