Robson Sharuko Senior Sports Editor&#8212;IT appears another window for Khama Billiat to make the leap to European football has been shut, with the Zimbabwe international forward set to spend at least another six months in the South African Premiership despite making an impression at the 2017 Nations Cup finals in Gabon. While the 26-year-old Warriors star is set for an extended dance with Super Diski, his Mamelodi Sundowns teammate Keegan Dolly has made the grade in Europe after signing a long-term deal with French top-flight league side Montpellier.Billiat outshone Dolly during Sundowns successful campaign in the South African Premiership during the 2015-2016 season and was rewarded with all the top awards of excellence given to individuals who would have excelled in Super Diski.Warriors talisman Knowledge Musona, who has been a close friend of Billiat since their schoolboy days, said it was time for Billiat to make a move to Europe since he had conquered the South African Premiership. I wish this time he will go somewhere else to better his football, where the professionalism level is higher. I hope he leaves South Africa and goes to a better club in Europe, Musona, who used Soweto giants Kaizer Chiefs as a springboard for a move to Europe where he is now playing for Belgian side KV Oostende, said.But, instead of Billiat making the move, it was Dolly who secured a deal with Montpellier and the Bafana Bafana star has been basking in the glory of his adventure. Just wanna thank everyone for the continuous support and special thank you to the people @Masandawana for all the opportunities, Dolly said on Twitter.Former Orlando Pirates coach Roger da Sa also took to Twitter to congratulate Dolly, telling the playmaker, Congrats @dolly_keegan07, keep writing your story as journey continues, while former South African international, Marks Maponyane said, you deserve every bit of your footballing success man. Dolly was sold for R20 million.But, for Billiat, he can only keep waiting, and hoping, although that move which had been expected to happen last month will not be possible after the European January transfer window closed yesterday.Last week, an influential British daily newspaper fuelled speculation that Billiat could move to the English Premiership after naming him among players who had made a big impression in Gabon. The Africa Cup of Nations always offers a chance for some of the continent s lesser-known players to shine, journalist Jonny Singer, writing for Mailonline, noted in their AFCON group report. Two years ago Eric Bailly, now of Manchester United, and Didier N Dong, Sunderland s record signing, both emerged as stars before going on to move to the Premier League. The 26-year-old forward plays in South Africa with Mamelodi Sundowns, who he helped win the African Champions League season. What does he bring? Pace, silky skills, and terrific footwork. While Zimbabwe may have gone out in the group stage, Billiat was one of their stars of the tournament, particularly impressive against Algeria, where he proved himself against defenders used to playing at the top level in European football. Can he improve? At 26, Billiat is probably too old to be signed as one for the future. He is fairly lightweight and would probably take time to adapt to the English game. That said, his ability to cope with some dreadful pitches in Gabon and still trick his way past opponents suggests he is more than capable of adapting quickly. Who would he suit? Probably not a top Premier League side, but a mid-table club looking for a versatile goal-threat could consider Billiat to be worth a try. There is reported interest from clubs in the French and Belgian top flights, but don t rule out a move to England down the line. But that will have to wait for another transfer window, which opens in August.Billiat indicated last week that he planned to discuss his future with Sundowns although he remained committed to the African champions. I will go back to my club since I am still contracted and committed to them, then we can talk about my future and we can see what they say about my future and if there is a way forward we can then decide, Billiat told SuperSport.In December, Billiat told the official FIFA website that he would love to play in Europe. I d love to play in Europe. I follow Borussia Dortmund and Atletico Madrid so it would be fantastic to get that far one day, said Billiat. But to do that I need to work every day to get better, then better again, then even better. Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane says the way his club prepares their players makes them suitable to play in Europe.The Brazilians coach was speaking in the wake of Dolly s departure. We will miss him . . . me as a coach will not only miss a player ,but also a person . . . his personality, Mosimane told Kick-Off. I don t think we have had stories of Keagan in night clubs and doing funny stories. Even if given space because he is young he could have done one or two mistakes like others, but the boy kept playing football. He did well also in the Olympics and Champions League. He deserves the opportunity and got the chance. 