From Tawanda Mangoma in Chiredzi Zanu-PF Masvingo provincial chairman Cde Ezra Chadzamira has warned the party s Youth League members to stop siphoning money from desperate home seekers, while promising them residential stands which do not exist. The development comes as more than 2 000 youths from Chiredzi District are expecting free residential stands after submitting their names for consideration last week.Addressing party members during the Chiredzi inter-district meeting over the weekend, Cde Chadzamira tasked the provincial Youth League to clarify on matters of residential stands which party members kept raising during the question and answer session. Most party members are asking about residential stands which are said to be under distribution, he said. This is a matter which the Youth League must clarify because as a province we are not aware of such developments. Responding to the matter, provincial Youth League political commissar Cde Brian Munyari said the process of residential stands distribution was being run by a mafia. As the party s provincial youth political commissar, I have no reason to lie to the constituency which I serve, he said. Youths be warned, the issue about residential stands is being done by a mafia, it s a secret between Cde Martin Zinyoro (Zanu-PF national youth Secretary for Science and Technology) and Cde Norbet Ndaarombe (Masvingo provincial youth chairman). These two are in Chiredzi, but they decided not to attend this important meeting. Zinyoro was even here, he disappeared after some youths asked him about the validity of last week s process. It s shocking that as a province we have never discussed openly the issue about these stands. Surprisingly, we only learnt last week that registration from wards was under way and 2 000 residential stands will be allocated to youths in Chiredzi District, with 400 stands going to Chiredzi North constituency, 600 to Chiredzi South, another 600 to Chiredzi West and 400 to Chiredzi East. Cde Munyari added that the process in itself had a lot of loopholes since it was not going through stipulated party structures.Zanu-PF Politburo member and Resident Minister for Masvingo Cde Shuvai Mahofa criticised youth leaders who are raising people s expectations by spreading falsehoods.