LONDON. &#8211; Arsene Wenger has called for unity among the fans after Arsenal s disastrous week. Wenger has also refused to give up on Arsenal s chances of winning this season s English Premier League soccer title, despite trailing Chelsea by 12 points after a 3-1 weekend defeat by the league leaders. Gunners boss Wenger did his best to dismiss the banners calling for his head and dissent among the supporters after Arsenal fell 12 points behind in the English Premier League soccer title race.Wenger, who confirmed the players had a team meeting this week, said: I believe what is important is that we focus on the next game and don t give too much importance to one fan. It is a good opportunity to show what we are made of. We have a big fight in the Premier League and Champions League, we still have the FA Cup as well. Of course it has been a difficult week. We are here to win football games and when we don t we are very disappointed. Ideally you want everybody to be happy but Arsenal is made of special strengths and one of those is to be united. Speaking ahead of this weekend s clash with Hull, the Frenchman addressed the banner at Stamford Bridge, insisting that this situation is not merely about himself. It is not me that is at stake &#8211; it is Arsenal football club. And despite the loss to Antonio Conte s side, he refused to concede the title. It is never over, at least we have to behave like that. If you (the Press) think it is over, I don t &#8211; we are in a pack that is tight. Wenger faces anxious fitness tests on Hector Bellerin after he suffered concussion at Chelsea but hopes he will be fit while Mohamed Elneny is back after the African Cup of Nations,Wenger added: At the moment he (Bellerin) has not practised. Elneny has practised, he is fully-focused and has a great mentality. Elneny is back available and apart from that we have a question about Bellerin. He is going for tests every day. The Gunners host Marco Silva s improving side at the Emirates in tomorrow s early kick-off as they look to bounce back from their consecutive Premier League losses.That has seen Wenger s side slip to fourth in the table, just a point ahead of fifth place Liverpool and 13 points off pace-setters Chelsea. &#8211; The Mirror.