Martin Lock with his sons Benjamin and Courtney before Zimbabwe s Davis Cup tie against Moldova in 2015Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter TENNIS Zimbabwe president Martin Lock says they are targeting at least six Futures tournaments as part of their preparations for the Davis Cup scheduled for July. Zimbabwe will this year compete in Africa Zone Group III after they were relegated from the Europe/Africa Zone Group II when they lost to Georgia in the relegation play-offs last year. They were promoted into Group II in 2014 and in 2015 they managed to retain their place in the Group. But it was a different case last year as they found the going tough and will have to fight for promotion back into Group II in Egypt from July 17 to 22.Lock said they are looking at Futures tournaments in Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Egypt as a platform to fine-tune their preparations. We are looking at two Futures tournaments in Mozambique, beginning of June, another two in Harare middle and end of June. Then we have two weeks of competition in Egypt because Davis Cup is actually being held in Cairo. If they can play six Futures tournaments leading to Davis Cup, that s fantastic preparation, said Lock. The team is yet to be selected but Lock highlighted that it would be made up of a pool of players including those that participated last year.The Futures tournaments have become an important part for the Davis Cup team in the recent past years, with the country hosting some of the events at Harare Sports Club. We have already held meetings with Old Mutual, last year. They are our traditional sponsors. We will be looking to them to sponsor us again this year. They have done us proud, we have a strong rapport with them, said Lock.However, the tennis association s immediate task is the Under-18 African Junior Championships starting next week in Tunis, Tunisia. They are running from February 6 to 11.Zimbabwe will be represented by Mehluli Sibanda, who was part of the Davis Cup team last year and Dennis Moses in the boys section. Kimberly Bhunu, Sasha Taruberekera and Danai Chinamo will take part in the girls competition. Lock said they are optimistic of good results at the championships.