The two trucks which were intercepted by the FERRET team after smuggling a consignments of detergents from South Africa into Zimbabwe via Beitbridge Border Post. They avoided paying duty of $30 000. The trucks are still under seizure by Zimra and are being kept at the Container depot pending the finalisation of the matterThupeyo Muleya Beitbridge Bureau The Ferret team has intercepted two South African trucks en-route to Harare with smuggled detergents worth $30 000 in import duty. The contraband was smuggled through Beitbridge Border Post after the owners made an under declaration, which saw them paying a paltry $2 910 for both trucks. The deal, which is believed to involve Zimbabwe Revenue Authority officials and the customs clearing agents saw the State losing a total of $29,924.50 in import duty.The Herald is in possession of documents showing that the consignment, comprising over 5 000 boxes of Harpic, Jik and Dettol soap belongs to Collmas Investments of Harare. The two vehicles were intercepted by the Ferret team on January 24, but the matter has taken long to finalise with both Zimra and the police, reportedly conducting intensive investigations.The Ferret team is made up of officials from Zimra, police, immigration and other security agents. By the end of the day yesterday, the trucks and the loot were still being kept at the Zimra container depot, where physical examinations of goods is carried out.Zimra s board secretary and director of legal and corporate affairs, Ms Florence Jambwa could neither confirm nor deny the incident. Section 34A of the Revenue Authority Act (Chapter 23:11) does not permit Zimra to divulge specific details pertaining to its clients to a third party. I am, therefore, unable to respond to the questions you have asked because of the said secrecy provisions. What I can only confirm is that where goods or vehicles are detained by Zimra on or after importation, they are dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Customs and Excise Act (Chapter 23:02)F, she said.Matabeleland South police spokesperson, Inspector Philisani Ndebele confirmed the interception and that the matter was still under investigations. The matter is still under investigation. No arrests have been made yet and I cannot give you further details at this point, he said.However, a border official who preferred anonymity said yesterday that the trucks were intercepted near Lutumba area following a tip-off. We believe this has been going on for a long time, and we are conducting intensive investigations into the matter. The goods were being transported by a South African company (name supplied) of Pretoria. At the moment, both the trucks which were pulling two trailers each are still being kept at Condep pending finalisation of the case, said the official.