Symptoms of schizophrenia usually start between the ages of 16 and 30. In rare cases, some children have developed schizophrenia tooDr Sacrifice Chirisa Mental Health Matters Schizophrenia is a chronic and severe mental disorder that affects how a person thinks, feels, and behaves. People with schizophrenia may seem like they have lost touch with reality. Although schizophrenia is not as common as other mental disorders it occurs in one percent of the population the symptoms can be very disabling.Symptoms of schizophrenia usually start between the ages of 16 and 30. In rare cases, some children have developed schizophrenia too. The symptoms of schizophrenia fall into three categories; positive, negative, and cognitive.Positive symptoms are psychotic behaviours not generally seen in healthy people. People with positive symptoms may lose touch with some aspects of reality.Symptoms include Hallucinations, delusions, thought disorders (unusual or dysfunctional ways of thinking), movement disorders (agitated body movements).Negative symptoms are associated with disruptions to normal emotions and behaviours. Symptoms include Flat affect (reduced expression of emotions via facial expression or voice tone), reduced feelings of pleasure in everyday life, difficulty beginning and sustaining activities, reduced speaking.Cognitive symptoms: For some patients, the cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia are subtle, but for others, they are more severe and patients may notice changes in their memory or other aspects of thinking.Symptoms include Poor executive functioning (the ability to understand information and use it to make decisions), trouble focusing or paying attention, problems with working memory (the ability to use information immediately after learning it).There are several factors that contribute to the risk of developing schizophrenia; scientists have long known that schizophrenia sometimes runs in families.However, there are many people who have schizophrenia who do not have a family member with the disorder and conversely, many people with one or more family members with the disorder who do not develop it themselves.Scientists believe that many different genes may increase the risk of schizophrenia, but that no single gene causes the disorder by itself. It is not yet possible to use genetic information to predict who will develop schizophrenia.Scientists also think that interactions between genes and aspects of the individual s environment are necessary for schizophrenia to develop. Environmental factors may involve; Exposure to viruses, malnutrition before birth, problems during birth, psychosocial factors.In addition, scientists think that an imbalance in the complex, interrelated chemical reactions of the brain involving the neurotransmitters (substances that brain cells use to communicate with each other) dopamine and glutamate, and possibly others, play a role in the development of schizophrenia.Treatment of the condition focuses on eliminating the symptoms of the disease. Treatment include:Antipsychotic medications are usually taken daily in pill or liquid form. Some anti-psychotics are injections that are given once or twice a month. Some people have side effects when they start taking medications, but most side effects disappear after a few days.Doctors and patients can work together to find the best medication or medication combination as well as the right dose.Psychosocial treatments are helpful after patients and their doctor find the medication that works. Learning and using coping skills to address the everyday challenges of schizophrenia helps people to pursue their life goals, such as attending school or work.Individuals who participate in regular psychosocial treatment are less likely to have relapses or be hospitalised.A coordinated specialty care model that integrates medication, psychosocial therapies, family involvement, and supported education and employment services, all aimed at reducing symptoms and improving quality of life are pivotal to the recovery of someone with this disorder.The take home message is Schizophrenia occurs in 1 in every 100 people and with early treatment the outcome can be acceptable with one even having a productive life after. Our culture has been to ignore, accuse one another of witchcraft over a biological mental illness that can be managed. Let s stop the Stigma.DISCLAIMER:This column contains information about mental health related issues. However, the information is not advice, and should not be treated as such. The writer accepts no responsibility for misuse and misrepresentation caused by the use or misunderstanding of this article.No warranties or assurances are made in relation to the safety and content of this article and attachments. Sender accepts no liability for any damage caused by or contained in any attachments. No liability is accepted for any consequences arising from this article.Dr S.M. Chirisa is a passionate mental health specialist who holds an undergraduate medical degree and postgraduate Master s degree in Psychiatry both from the University of Zimbabwe. He is currently working as a Senior Registrar in the Department of Psychiatry at Parirenyatwa Group of Hospitals and is also the current national treasurer of the Zimbabwe Medical association (ZiMA)