Ultra slim people also benefit from the feel good effects of exercise and eating wellInnocent Choga Fitness Column When we preach about the need to adopt fitness lifestyles, our messages are usually directed towards the overweight and obese.We rarely consider those individuals at the extreme opposite end. The general assumption is that they are fit. On numerous occasions I have heard people say I am thin , so it is not necessary for me to exercise. If I exercise I will I have no flesh left on me. I am lucky though, because I am ultra thin I can eat anything and I will not gain weight, furthermore I do not sweat . Experts say it is not proper to identify people by their body composition, thus they say it is improper and discriminatory to address people as fat or thin . While we term those from one extreme obese or overweight it is difficult to find a word that replaces the other term, thin. The term lean is not appropriate because it also applies to huge individuals with a very low percentage of fat in the body. Slim is complementary, meaning one has the ideal slender built. So in this case we will use the term ultra slim.A few months ago I was rushing down one of the less crowded streets in town. I was late to where I was going, so I had engaged into my highest gear and longest stride. I was really pushing my feet overtaking people with what I thought was the most powerful step in the street.Suddenly from behind me emerged this ultra slim lady, and she amazingly easily glides past me pushing the distance between us with every stride she took. I was stunned. A competitive spirit engulfed me; this lady had burst my bubble. I pushed my legs to the limit, but even then I could not catch up with this lady. I had to resist the temptation to engage into a sprint, for this would result in me sweating profusely so early in the morning.An analysis of the mechanics involved revealed that she was springing up on the balls of her feet defying gravity with her light body and using strength to gracefully float ahead like a ballet dancer. In comparison, I was trudging and surging forwards; I could never afford to waste energy springing up as she was doing because of my heavy load (weight). I only had the energy to push ahead. I was already breaking some facial sweat while her face was dry and fresh. The robots and heavy traffic made it possible for me to catch up with her.I asked if she exercises and she said she is into sports and strength training. I understood where her energy emanated from and I could not help but laugh at myself when I thought about the unsanctioned, secret competition that had been going on and why she sailed past me with ease. It was not because of the length of the stride because she was a head shorter than me. It was because she had a light body combined with strength and power.It was because of weight. I had been taught a lesson in humility and now I appreciate the things an ultra slim physique can do, provided it is a fit physique. The secret tournament spurred in me the desire to lose some weight this year so that I can carry my body comfortably with less effort and I am glad to say I am working on it.Being ultra slim does not automatically mean one is active, flexible, strong and graceful. Some ultra slim individuals are very lethargic, stiff and weak. A huge physique is also not a guarantee of strength and power. Strength depends on the body composition; some huge individuals are also very lethargic and weak. There are huge individuals who are also very active and flexible, just as there are ultra slim individuals who are strong and powerful. We all have to train to gain, improve and maintain these fitness components.We tend to be very particular when it comes to servicing our vehicles. We have to regularly find time and money. We cannot afford to miss the due date, otherwise we will compromise on the performance of the vehicle and break downs will cost us more money. Light vehicles and heavy vehicles all need regular service. It is the same, ultra slim bodies and ultra heavy bodies need exercise. When we stimulate the physique through exercise we increase its capabilities. It becomes costly when we always get sick and take time off from our work.Ultra slim individuals also need to go through their daily paces with ease, so they need endurance from aerobic exercises and strength from resistance exercises. Exercise boosts the immune system and reduces our chances of getting sick. Just like everyone the ultra slim individuals are not immune to contracting diseases both infectious and non communicable.Weight bearing exercises are important as we age because they increase bone density. The International Osteoporosis Foundation is warning of a four-fold increase in hip fractures and it states that hip fractures are associated with high mortality rates.Ultra slim individuals also suffer from fatigue, and exercise invigorates and allows us to relax, get rid of stress, and induce appetite and sleep, thereby helping us to stay alert. Therefore the ultra slim also benefit from the feel good effects of exercise and eating well.It is true that ultra slim individuals have hyperactive metabolism systems, but as they get older some will gain weight because of the declining hormone levels and therefore declining efficiency of the metabolism system. Regular exercise will ensure that the weight stays off.If the ultra slim eat anything and everything they also expose themselves to cholesterol, heart diseases and many other diseases, so they also need to eat well. Both diesel and petrol vehicles will not perform well when fed with contaminated fuel.Some ultra slim individuals shy away from strength training because they do not want to gain any weight. Some ultra slim athletes can execute some exciting inborn, unique skills that they feel they may fail to perform if they gain weight and they do not like to lose these skills.In some sports any diverse showy movements are termed a waste of energy that should be directed at attaining an athletic goal, but the ultra slim athletes who are strong and fast can afford to perform such skills without wasting time .If a slow athlete does that time will be lost or the opposition will have time to rally and counter the move.Strength and muscular endurance play an important role in many sports these days. Even the ultra slim marathon runners are conditioning with strength exercises without gaining body weight. Strong and balanced muscles helps support the skeletal structure resulting in a proper biomechanical alignment that helps in reducing the pounding impact. For example they do this to ensure that they suffer less from foot ankle and knee pain.Sweating does not mean one is not healthy; it is the body s natural way of regulating heat .The ultra slim and the ultra heavy produce different levels of heat. A vehicle that does not have an efficient cooling system will pack up when overheated.For cosmetic fitness issues, beauty is in the eye of the beholder. Because of cultural backgrounds we have differences in appreciation and preferences of the various physiques. New fitness advocacy in the Western world is for the strong and skinny physique.As for athletes I think it is necessary to observe and correct situations at earlier stages; strengthen the skinny athletes and help those who are overweight reduce weight. We have to be content with our different techniques. Whereas the ultra slim use style and grace to achieve their athletic goals, the bigger athletes use force and power, but strength should be a common denominator. There is need to understand that very low fat levels beyond the recommended levels can negatively affect the normal functions of the body.Innocent Choga is a six time National Bodybuilding Champion with international experience. He is studying for a science degree in Physical Education and Sport. Email: [email&#160;protected]