Ellina Mhlanga: Sports ReporterTWO Oceans Ultra-Marathon champion Mike Fokorani took the opportunity to move his preparations a gear up when he participated in the Old Mutual Relay Challenge over the weekend in Harare. Fokorani came second in the race behind Portifa Dombojena and he believes it s a good sign ahead of the Two Oceans in April. Old Mutual, they set a very good course, this is more like a flat course and this is the first race this season. So, to us athletes, those who are preparing for Comrades and Two Oceans this race is very good. After competing in this one, I will go home and start a new programme because I know where to polish up and everything. So this race gives me the rhythm of the (next) race. Being a defending champion is not an easy thing. I know people are training hard so that they can beat me, but I am also training. I want to defend my title in Two Oceans. I also want to go for Comrades, but my major aim is to defend my title for Two Oceans, said Fokorani.After winning the Two Oceans last year, Fokorani went on to finish fourth in Comrades Marathon.And he is optimistic it will be the same script again this year as he said he wants to improve his last performance at Comrades Marathon. If you are an athlete who is focused you aim higher. If I defend my name in Two Oceans, I also want to do my best in Comrades. I don t know what will happen, but top three, I must be there in Comrades. Two Oceans, we take it like part of a preparation for Comrades, even last year I ran Two Oceans and then Comrades. And I came fourth. What I do is when I am training for Comrades, I don t just jump to train for Comrades. It s stage by stage. I first get fitness for 42km and then go for 56km. From 56km I then for Comrades. I was training for 42km, doing a lot of hill work and speed, now I am fit for 42km I am going to train for 56km and then the Comrades, that s what I do, said Fokorani.Other local athletes that are eyeing the Two Oceans include Dombojena, Collen Makaza, Lizzie Chokore and Lyno Muchena.They were all part of road runners who met at Old Georgians Sports Club on Sunday.