Cde ChomboPamela Shumba:Bulawayo BureauHOME Affairs Minister Dr Ignatius Chombo has warned Zimbabweans to be wary of people offering them jobs overseas as they may end up being victims of human trafficking. Responding to questions in Parliament recently, Dr Chombo said Government was concerned with the issue of human trafficking and was taking measures to prevent it.He emphasised the need for job seekers to be cautious before they accept jobs out of the country. Zimbabwe is very much concerned about human trafficking and has taken all necessary measures to alert and prevent human trafficking. If there is anyone who is advertising falsely for jobs overseas and so on, please let us know. The police will arrest and get that person imprisoned. I m also appealing to Members of Parliament to conscientise your constituents to be careful when something sounds too rosy, said Dr Chombo. A lot of times, when genuine companies are interested in employees, they advertise. They go through the processes, but I do not remember any companies that sell the services of recruiting an employee. When you have some recruiting agent demanding money from you, you need to be careful. Police are ready to assist in any situation that arises. Dr Chombo said Government had set up an Inter-Ministerial Committee made up of relevant ministries that meets periodically to address issues to do with human trafficking.He said the Government was also making frantic efforts to create employment for youths in the country.Government last year launched the National Plan of Action on Human Trafficking (NAPLAC) in an effort to fight the crime.The launch followed cases of syndicates masquerading as employment agencies that have been luring Zimbabwean women to countries in Asia, Europe and the United States.Last year, over 200 Zimbabwean women were stranded in Kuwait after they were lured to the Middle East country on the pretext that they were going to be offered lucrative jobs by a local human trafficking syndicate.Most of them who were lured through advertisements in the local media had been employed as housemaids under harsh conditions, while others were reportedly forced into prostitution.Government facilitated their return home.