Sports Reporter NGEZI Platinum have been dealt a blow in their bid to play at their favourite hunting ground at Baobab, with the Confederation of African Football ruling that there would be logistical challenges in hosting the game because there are no suitable hotels close to the match venue. The miners had been hoping to host Mauritian outfit Pamplemousse in Ngezi in the Confederation Cup preliminary round, second leg tie.That match will now be played at the National Sports Stadium on Saturday in a lunch-time kick-off.It emerged that a CAF inspection team, led by Zambian Joseph Nkoli, noted that there were no suitable hotels around Mhondoro to house the visiting teams and match officials.CAF, however, did not have any qualms with Baobab Stadium, but the continental body noted that the nearest hotels were situated in Harare, which is 160km away from the match venue.The only other accommodation that could have fitted the bill is Chengeta Lodge, which is 70km away.ZIFA communications and competitions manager Xolisani Gwesela said CAF had given Ngezi three options, which included Rufaro and Barbourfields and the miners settled for the National Sports Stadium. CAF felt that there would be logistical problems for a visiting team to travel 160km for training and the match and for that reason the match cannot be played in Ngezi. When we notified Ngezi of the CAF ruling and that they had been given three options to play at either Rufaro, Barbourfields or the National Sports Stadium, they opted for the National Stadium and that match will be played at 1pm. After the game, Lioli of Lesotho, who are set to play CAPS United in the Champions League the following day, will then get a chance to train there and get a feel of the match venue as prescribed by CAF, Gwesela said.Gwesela said the CAF ruling should also serve as a challenge to the hospitality industry to partner football and sport in general to help spread tourism in the country by building hotels and lodges in other areas outside of Harare and Bulawayo .Ngezi, making their debut in the Confederation Cup after winning the Chibuku Super Cup in their maiden year in the Premiership, are confident of pulling through to the first round.The miners believe that the away goal they secured in the 1-1 first leg draw could prove vital at the National Sports Stadium on Saturday.Club chairman Jeremiah Gasiteni said they are now working at settling at their adopted home in Harare and were also planning to ferry their supporters from Mhondoro.Ngezi, who arrived back from Mauritius on Monday, night have been camped in the capital since their return. The team is camped in Harare and they will start training tomorrow (today) so that they have maximum use of the pitch. We will prepare as usual and it is not really a setback as we are still in Zimbabwe, where we are comfortable at any venue. We had a good result. We are getting into the match with our confidence high because if the game ends 0-0 we will still progress, said Gasiteni.Ngezi coach Tonderai Ndiraya said his team will be a changed lot when they host the Mauritius side. We started a bit slow, obviously due to the reasons we know. We had played four games in seven days and then on top of that we travelled a long distance, more than 4 000km, which is not easy. But the boys did well. Fought hard for this draw and that should set the tone for us to qualify for the next round. Of course, the team looked vulnerable at times due to the reasons I gave. The legs were heavy and that is the reason why we set a defensive team. You don t expect to play an attacking game when your body isn t ready to do that. We knew we were going to struggle a bit, but quite frankly I thought we should have won the game by two goals. So, certainly, it s going to be a different ball game when we play at home. The approach will change. We will go all out in search of qualification, Ndiraya said.Ndiraya will be hoping to get clearer picture on the status of his goalkeeper Nelson Chadya, who suffered a knee injury in Mauritius.Midfielder Walter Mukanga is also being assessed after receiving a knock in the first leg.Malawian referee Ishmael Chizinga will take charge of the game with the assistance of his countrymen Clement Kanduku and Joniziyo Luwizi, while Botswana s Joshua Bondo will be the fourth official and Thabo Phule of Lesotho the match commissioner.