Paul Mundandi Sports Reporter CAPS United are confident of making a mark in the Champion League this season and want to emulate rivals Dynamos who reached the final in 1998.The Green Machine skipper Moses Muchenje said they were not in the tournament to just make up numbers. We want to make a mark in the Champions League. If Sundowns managed to win the Cup why not us? We need to work hard and believe in ourselves, said Muchenje. A number of fans think that we are in the competition to make numbers but that is not the case. We are dreaming big and who knows, we might also end up getting two slots for the country. We are going to Lesotho next week to represent Zimbabwe and Ngezi Platinum will be in Mauritius on the same mission. My plea is for the fans to believe in the two teams because we are representing Zimbabwe. Let s put the rivalry aside and be proud of our motherland. I also would love to see a situation where rival fans would watch football together and do away with the violent conduct of throwing missiles or fighting each other at the stadiums. Football brings us together and we must be proud that we are Zimbabweans who love peace. Muchenje said they were not worried about facing Congolese giants TP Mazembe should they beat their Lesotho counterparts. Some fans have already ruled us out but we have no problem with that. We believe in ourselves and we are more than ready for TP Mazembe as long they will field eleven players. We are, however, focused on the match against Lioli. We must win that match and the least I expect is a draw in Lesotho. I am not even thinking about TP Mazembe. We have to pass the Lesotho hurdle first. We have been to Zambia and I am happy that we bonded very well with the new recruits. We learnt a lot after playing two international friendly matches and the onus is now on us to implement what we were taught. Our technical staff is united and I think, just like last season, they will take us to the Promised Land. Muchenje said his duty was to lead his men and kept them focussed. I am the captain and it s not a problem for me to be on the bench because I know it s tactical, said Muchenje. The derby match we played against Dynamos last season saw me assisting in all the three goals we scored and that earned us a point which was vital at the end of the season. I am happy for Devon (Chafa), Josta (Ngodzo), Musarurwa (Valentine) and Chitiyo (Ronald). As CAPS United we are a united family and we are on the right path. Namibian referee Jackson Pavasa will handle the match in Lesotho and will be assisted by compatriots Matheus Kanyanga, David Tauhulupo Shaanika and Jonas Shongedi.