Lionel Depute Herald Reporter&#8212;-Corporates have joined hands with the Government in the fight against typhoid by participating in clean-up campaigns and conducting hygiene lessons to elevate the importance of proper sanitisation. Speaking during a clean-up campaign in Budiriro 5 recently, Harare Mayor Councillor Benard Manyenyeni commended Unilever and encouraged good hygiene practices, and public private partnerships as solutions to help address sanitation challenges. Public private partnerships are a crucial element to community development. Through the collaboration of business, Government and the community, we can improve the health and well-being of millions of Zimbabweans, he said.Unilever managing director Mr Hillary Muzondiwa said that he was hopeful that the campaign would help improve health in the community through proper hygiene practices. Our hope is that this clean-up and educational awareness drive will help this community to improve their health through the practice of proper hygiene and hand washing with soap, he said. Today, hundreds of years later, our vision still remains relevant as we make efforts to prevent the proliferation of communicable diseases through measures to improve sanitation and hygiene. He also vowed that corporates would continue to help the community as a result of their social consciousness. Unilever has a long-standing history of social consciousness that dates back to its origins. This legacy is what drives us to lend a hand to the typhoid relief efforts currently underway in the country, said Mr Muzondiwa. Our efforts with our partners will continue to focus on providing sustained aid through health and hygiene messages to the affected communities. Unilever also conducts hygiene education during the campaign to elevate the importance of proper sanitation. Clinical research shows that proper hygiene and hand washing with soap especially before meals and after using the toilet, can reduce the risk of diarrhoeal diseases by up to 45 percent.It is a cost effective solution that can help reduce the spread of germs and preventable diseases such as typhoid and cholera.Unilever also distributed Lifebuoy soap and Domestos toilet cleaner to assist in addressing hygiene and sanitation challenges in Budiriro 5.