LONDON. Martin Keown has branded Mesut Ozil an expensive luxury as the Arsenal star s poor form continues. German midfielder Ozil has only managed five English Premier League goals not finding the net since November and just four assists. Last season Ozil was the Premier League s assist king with 19, but has failed to find his form consistently this campaign.The Gunners slipped to fourth place, 12 points behind leaders Chelsea after Saturday s 3-1 defeat to The Blues, which was preceded by a shock home defeat to Watford. And while fans are blaming manager Arsene Wenger , former defender Keown has singled out Ozil as the indulgent problem. After Saturday s defeat by Chelsea, it was interesting that Wenger said that senior players did not perform, Keown told MailOnline. That is really unusual for Sanchez but Ozil becomes an expensive luxury when you are out of possession.Ozil does not know his role when Arsenal do not have the ball and it is the responsibility of the manager to tell him. Ozil would not get in (to Arsneal Invincibles team). It would be a choice between Ozil and Dennis Bergkamp. Dennis played in the same position but he would start higher up the pitch and then drop. Ozil starts deep and you don t know when he is coming or going. We saw it against Chelsea Sanchez is saying, Come on but Ozil does not really want to go and press. Ozil has just 18 months left on his current Gunners deal and is stalling over a new contract.The stand-off has alerted Barcelona who have long been interested in the Gunners playmaker, having shown interest in trying to sign him twice before. Meanwhile, Thierry Henry believes that Wenger should STAY as Arsenal manager &#8211; and believes his former side s problems are a question of mentality.Wenger s contract is up at the end of the season and after the 3-1 weekend defeat at league leader Chelsea, the Frenchman faced renewed calls from supporters to step down at the end of the season.Such calls from sections of the club s support &#8211; and signs calling for Wenger to depart &#8211; have seen Wenger moved to odds-on with some bookmakers to NOT be in charge next season. The Mirror