An aerial view of Sekuru Mbisvi s homestead by the Hunyani RiverFreedom Mupanedemo Sekuru Efinos Mbisvi (68) of Mashumbi in Dande has earned himself the tag VaMarwizi .His stoicism has earned him the name but authorities are worried his stance could cost him his life. Despite several warnings, evictions and other stern measures, Sekuru Mbisvi remains adamant he will live on the banks of the flood-prone Hunyani River. What has been shocking are the statistics indicating that more than 90 people have died this rainy season due to floods and lightning incidents.However, since 2004, Sekuru Mbisvi has had close brushes with death, where twice, he and all his belongings have been swept away by the flooded river waters.His survival has made him feel invincible, as evidenced by his refusal to vacate the place despite the glaring danger. In an interview, Sekuru Mbisvi said he was not keen on relocating. This is my home. This is where I have been living since 2004. This river has been my source of life and I am here to stay, he declared.The otherwise jovial old man claimed he left his family in Sangojena Village of Dande in 2004 to stay on the river bank after being shown the place in a dream. He said he has resisted evictions from the police and got over the trauma of having been swept away by the flooded river as he felt he was called to live there by his ancestors. I dreamt of this place and I believe I am here not by coincidence but through some calling. I have met several challenges though, my huts were burnt down several times by law enforcement agents, Sekuru Mbisvi said. I was also swept away twice but survived. My property, including chickens, which were in a fowl-run, were swept away but I still have a strong bond with this place.He said he was enjoying life staying alone at his homestead and was prepared to see his life out at that place. You know the place is so quiet and refreshing as opposed to the busy life in the village, I eke out a living through fishing and farming. Police (from Mushumbi Police Station) are my biggest clients now; they come here to buy fish. I also grow vegetables and they come to buy vegetables. Of late they have stopped harassing me as they used to do. I think now they appreciate my lifestyle, he retorted.Sekuru Mbisvi said he built his bedroom hut using raised logs so as to avoid floods. Following two instances when I was swept away in my sleep, I then devised a plan and built my bedroom on raised logs and now I feel a bit safe from the floods, he said.Sekuru Mbisvi said he left a wife and children back in the village and his family occasionally visits him to find out if he is well. He said he, however, still fends for the family, sending maize after every harvest. Despite the challenges of my maize crop being swept away in floods on some occasions, I usually get a good harvest and my family members come to collect maize after every harvest. I rarely go there but when there is a problem they send someone to inform me, he explained.At his age, Sekuru Mbisvi says he no longer dreams of living a modern life or owning a cellphone, insisting he is happy with his life style away from the madding crowd. I have never owned a cellphone and don t dream of owning one. I am very happy with this kind of life which is stress free, he said.The presence of hippos in the Hunyani River does not faze the strong willed man. I wake up to inspect my fields, there are hippos along the river so at times I wake up during the night to wade them off my fields. This problem (of hippos) happens when there are maize cobs. I also go fishing along the river, he said.Sekuru Mbisvi s survival instincts has earned him several nicknames for defying the odds.He also has had a fair share of clashes with the police.Thrice, his homestead , which usually consists two huts, a raised bedroom made up of straw, pole and dagger as well as a makeshift kitchen made of the same, were razed by police from Mashumbi Police Station.The local council had raised concern over the dangers brought by Sekuru Mbisvi`s choice of residence. It would take few days before Sekuru Mbisvi erects new structures at the same place where the police would have destroyed his huts. He is adamant and at some point the incensed police had to detain him but this did not deter him at all, Chengetai Chisunga, a relative to Sekuru Mbisvi, said.She said people in the surrounding area were still puzzled as to why Sekuru Mbisvi chose to call such a dangerous place his home.Some have gone to the extent of calling him mysterious. Besides floods, there are hippos in the Hunyani River but Sekuru Mbisvi seems to be living with them, she added.Because of the harassment he usually faces at the hands of law enforcement agents, Sekuru Mbisvi is usually hostile.The Herald had to be accompanied by his relative, Ms Chisunga for an interview.Situated in the thorny and flooded Hunyani River, there is no easy way to access Sekuru Mbisvi s homestead.Ironically, his residence is set a stone s throw away from Mashumbi Police Station, which has its boundary fence bordering a plateau along the river.And Sekuru Mbisvi s homestead is only accessible from the direction of Mashumbi Police Station so there is a hole cut on the police fence that visitors intending to access this mysterious man s homestead use.One has to get into the police camp through the main gate and then trespass through a hole to get to Sekuru Mbisvi.Apparently, Sekuru Mbisvi uses that route when intending to meet the outside world so he is a regular trespasser.He is suspected to have cut the hole in the fence into the police station.The homestead s location and how this man has for many years lived a happy life alone under such circumstances is rather intriguing.The homestead, comprising three structures, a bedroom hut, a kitchen and another small thatched fowl run, his only livestock, are only a few metres away from the flooded Hunyani River.Around the homestead and some distance along the river bank is a green field of thriving maize crop &#8211; some of it submerged in the stagnant muddy waters of the river.For Sekuru Mbisvi, life revolves around the river. He rarely visits the shops and when he does, it s when he goes to a beer hall at Mashumbi Business Centre to grab two or so opaque beers commonly known as Chibatai munhu.He is a rare breed of a man, a man local villagers believe is mysterious but who cares.For Sekuru Mbisvi, life goes on!