Tinashe Makichi:MotoringThe Mercedes Actros is a modern workstation with attractive living space which provides a most fascinating way to experience this new dimension in long-distance transport. The new Actros offers a range of cabs and specification for every task and budget. Its innovative technology provides an economical transport solution, long-distance or short-haul.In addition, the Actros boasts of hard-wearing good looks and of course exemplary Mercedes-Benz standards of safety. Features like Telligent Lane Assist, a larger and more comfortable bed with adjustable head section, and the innovative Power Shift gearbox all add up to a truck that is safer, more comfortable and easier to drive than ever before.After being voted Truck of the Year in 1997, 2004, 2009 and 2012 and awarded a Guinness World Record for fuel efficiency, the Actros has just gone one better by being voted Truck of the Decade by Truck and Driver readers.Zimoco is the local dealer for Mercedes Benz products in Zimbabwe.Zimoco commercials vehicle sales manager Gareth Evans said the Mercedes Actros is not in stock at the moment but it remains one of the best the commercial vehicles segment. We don t have stock of the Actros at the moment but on demand the Mercedes has a big market share on commercial vehicles, said Mr Evans. Delta Beverages remains the biggest buyer of commercial vehicles and their fleet is predominantly Mercedes, he said.The efficient and hard wearing engines are high on dynamism and low on maintenance. Enhancing an already powerful performance, versatile Mercedes Power Shift automatic transmission is equipped as standard for road vehicles.The vehicle is spacious and pleasant as a workplace during the day and it gives you a comfortable evening retreat during longer journeys.The Actros range of cabs provides an unparalleled level of comfort, functionality and egronomic design. For driver, load and vehicle, safety systems are in place to safeguard every journey.The Actros creates a powerful impression and the stylish front apron eludes quality with its streamlined contours and Mercedes-Benz star.It is complimented by an interior with high-quality equipment and trim.The vehicle boasts of Telligent which is a complete package of systems covering all aspects of operation in the new Actros.Mercedes intelligent systems monitor and regulate the vehicle functions, giving drivers a safer, smoother ride and prolonging the life of the vehicle and parts. The Telligent maintenance system is an integrated vehicle diagnostics and service system.It continuously registers all relevant operating status states and from these determines the state of the equipment and wear parts.Whether it s the engine oil change, brake lining wear or coolant level, it monitors all maintenance functions and displays them in the driver information display. The integrated diagnosis system allows faults that occur to be detected quickly and localised speedily.The vehicle has an effective power transmission system distributing power through a large and complex system requires precise engineering and careful design.In the Actros, a range of dedicated systems work in synergy to deliver maximum performance. Reliable and efficient, the Actros makes the most of every drop of fuel.