Usain BoltMELBOURNE. Sprinting great Usain Bolt is refusing to dwell on the disappointment of losing his Beijing Olympics 4&#215;100 metres gold medal after his Jamaican team mate Nesta Carter tested positive for a banned stimulant. Bolt, who completed a remarkable treble treble of 100m, 200m and 4x100m Olympic titles at the 2016 Rio Games, had his 2008 relay gold stripped last month after Carter s re-tested sample indicated he had taken methylhexaneamine.The International Olympic Committee (IOC) ordered Carter, who has already said he would appeal the decision to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS), and team mates Bolt, Asafa Powell and Michael Frater to return their medals. Initially (I was) disappointed, of course, Bolt told reporters at Melbourne Airport as he arrived ahead of the Nitro Athletics series. But in life, things happen. I m not sad . . . I m just waiting to see what s going to happen. But I gave up my medal. Powell, who served a six-month doping ban for a positive test in 2013, was as phlegmatic as his storied compatriot. It s very unfortunate and we have to look to the future, Powell said. We ve accomplished a lot and we just need to be positive about everything right now. I m in no position to say what should and should not be (banned). It is what it is. Some things aren t fair. Bolt will lead an international team of All Stars in the Nitro Athletics series in Melbourne against four other teams representing England, China, New Zealand and Japan.The first meeting is on Saturday, with the other two on February 9 and 11.Meanwhile, Russia s 4x400m women s relay team was stripped of its London 2012 silver medal yesterday after the IOC named one of its athletes as a doping cheat.Using new technology the International Olympic Committee is retesting hundreds of stored samples from the 2012 and Beijing 2008 Games as part of its drive to clean up the drug-tainted Olympics.The latest to be snared is Antonina Krivoshapka, a 400m runner who was part of the Russian team that came second in the relay in London.The IOC said the 29-year-old tested positive for the banned steroid turinabol and it means that the whole Russian 4x400m women s team is disqualified. The United States won the relay with Jamaica third and Ukraine fourth. The Russian men s 4x400m relay team that won bronze in Beijing was similarly stripped of its medal because of doping.Russian athletes were banned from the Rio Olympics last year because of state-sponsored doping and a second Russian, discus thrower Vera Ganeeva, 28, was also disqualified on Wednesday after finishing 23rd in London. She too tested positive for turinabol.Turkish boxer Adem Kilicci (30) was also disqualified after ranking fifth in London after he too was found to have taken turinabol, the IOC said.Last week Bolt lost one of his nine Olympic gold medals when the IOC stripped Jamaica of their 4x100m relay win at the 2008 Games after team-mate Carter was caught doping. Reuters