Tinashe Makichi Motoring The new Audi Q7 is one of the better choices for buyers looking at a proper seven seater SUV in the luxury segment. The vehicle is athletic, timeless and unique. It has reduced overhang at the back, enhanced sporty appearance. With more width and height and an even more striking presence, masculine yet conveying lightness, Audi Q7 is the result of an ambitious idea Never stop getting better. The design of the Audi Q7 is characterised by streamlined surfaces and sharp lines. It is more compact than its predecessor. Its width and height increased giving it an even more masculine look and more presence.The distinctive radiator grille and the optional Matrix LED head lamps emphasize its timeless and athletic appearance. Audi Q7 s interior passenger space has increased in comparison to its predecessor. There is also a variety of interior configuration options: the second row of the standard layout has three seats with adjustable backrests.On request, for example, two electrically folding individual seats can be added in the third row, making it a seven-seater. This option features folding outer seats in the second row to make getting into the car easier.Whether they are xenon plus, LED or Matrix LED headlights, every piece of Audi headlight technology illuminates the road evenly and extensively. With a daylight quality high and low beam the road is optimally illuminated, both in the dark and in bad weather.Elegant ambience meets superbly crafted premium quality while the dual decorative inlays can accommodate individual combinations of applications to suit the owner s needs. The vehicle is also individually configurable: it has automatic climate control, which can be adjusted for the comfort of the driver and if required the passengers.Audi Q7 has four individually adjustable climate zones for the ideal feel-good atmosphere. The vehicle s S line packages emphasize the sporty character of the new Audi Q7. The S Line package accentuate its dynamic body line, lend the interior even more expression or give the suspension even sportier definition for enhanced driving dynamics.Exterior The vehicle boats of front and rear bumpers, side radiator grilles and diffuser insert in striking, sporty design emphasise the dynamic exterior.Wheels The optional forged aluminium wheels in 5 arm turbine design, contrasting grey, partly polished, size 9,5 J x 21 with 285 /40 R21 tyres guarantee a powerful appearance. Special information about the wheels: wheels with gloss turned finish as well as polished or partly polished aluminium wheels must not be used in wintry road conditions.For manufacturing reasons, the rim surface does not have sufficient corrosion protection for such use and can be damaged permanently by road salt or similar.Interior The vehicle has front sport seats with S line seat upholstery in perforated Alcantara/leather in black with S embossing in the front-seat backrests, as well as an upper inlay in brushed aluminium, Sono, and a lower inlay in chrome paint finish, slate grey, provide a sporty atmosphere in the black interior.Intelligently engineered with all-wheel drive, a powerful supercharged engine and a lighter yet more rigid body grant the Q7 remarkably nimble performance that belies its size.The Audi Q7 offers our most robust line-up of available driver assistance technologies yet, including Audi pre sense city with pedestrian detection, collision avoidance assist technologies and even a traffic jam assist feature.