WELCOME to the Dunamis Column I believe the month of February started well for you in this season of Restoration. Today I will be talking to you about two outstanding things about Jesus ministry during his days here on earth, two things you should desire in your life, two gifts you should earnestly covet. Yes other things will follow but desire these two the most. They must be restored in the church. Healing and Deliverance are yours! And when they were come to the multitude, there came to him a certain man, kneeling down to him, and saying, 15 Lord, have mercy on my son: for he is lunatic, and sore vexed: for ofttimes he falleth into the fire, and oft into the water. 16 And I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not cure him. 17 Then Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? how long shall I suffer you? bring him hither to me. 18 And Jesus rebuked the devil; and he departed out of him: and the child was cured from that very hour. 19 Then came the disciples to Jesus apart, and said, Why could not we cast him out? 20 And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief: for verily I say unto you, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible unto you. 21 Howbeit this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting. When you desire to function in this ministry of deliverance like the Lord Jesus you should be a prayerful person.He had gone up the mountain with three of his disciples to pray. We hear Peter say, Lord we will build three tabernacles, one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah! You see when you are a prayerful person you get to know other things by revelation.How did he know them? He had never seen Moses or Elijah! It was due to prayer.They had been praying up the mountain with the Lord Jesus when the transfiguration took place!When you pray you will know other things about your life, children, family and workplace by revelation. O hallelujah! I like it, I like it!When they got down they found other disciples struggling to cast out a devil.The father of the child was very discouraged and could clearly tell that the disciples had failed to cast the devil out!There are people who cast out devils by mere faith in God and also heal the sick by faith. Not necessarily that they have the gifts of healing or deliverance but they exercise faith.We will talk about that some day. Friends you need these two gifts in your life, to heal the sick and to cast out devils.It s what made Jesus ministry unique and renowned because he touched the core of human life.All over people are sick and people are bound by devils. God is counting on you to carry his power to the world through these gifts.Jesus ministry was characterised by these and so should your life also. O hallelujah! Somebody must receive these two powerful ministries.When they arrived it s the father that rushed to Jesus. He said your disciples have failed to help my child.Jesus said, ah for how long shall I endure this generation. Other versions say, for how long shall I endure your unbelief. Then he casted the devil out and the child was free. The demon would seize the child and seek to throw him in water or fire.How terrible this was since he was a little boy. But we thank God for Jesus and the ministry of deliverance! O hallelujah! Some are tormented by works of witchcraft, some can t sleep at night, some can t keep a job for more than two months; something always happens that ends up in you being fired! 2017 we say no, no, no enough is enoughHere is my question in this story why did these other disciples remain when others went up the mountain for prayer?Be at the right place at the right time. Why be in the valley when Jesus is up the mountain praying with other disciples just like you?Why stay home all year when others are gathering up at church for all night prayers?Why be isolated when others are meeting for prayers and Sunday services? The bible says do not forsake the gathering of the saints! Hebrews 10:25.Jesus also said to the disciples when they asked him how they had failed to cast the devil out, this kind does not go except by prayer and fasting. So they could not cast it out. Listen to me some issues in life will only be resolved when you bend your knees in prayer and also set some time aside for you to fast (stay away or abstain from food for s given period of time for spiritual reasons).It means when operating in this gift of deliverance fasting should be a part of your life. When you pray and fast, there is a way that you just know things. You just know.You will know umm there is a devil there, I must cast it out! O hallelujah! 2017 is a good year and a lot of things are already happening but healing the sick and casting out devils must be at the fore-front in this year of Restoration! O these gifts are good! I like them, I like them.Not only bishops and pastors should heal the sick and cast out devils; no, you should too! O haha I like it!Always remember for with God all things are possible Mark 10:27.