Talent Hwari Herald Reporter The Zimbabwe Electoral Commission has gazetted Cde Beauty Chabaya s victory as a duly elected Member of Parliament for Bikita West. Cde Chabaya, of the ruling Zanu-PF polled 13 156, while Zimbabwe People First (ZimPF) candidate Kudakwashe Gopo garnered 2 453 votes. Other candidates in the by-election performed dismally and failed to garner significant votes.In a Government gazette published on Friday, ZEC chief elections officer Mrs Constance Chigwamba confirmed the election results. It is hereby notified that, in terms of sector 68 of the Electoral Act [Chapter 2:13], that, following conduct of the by-election held on the 21st of January 2017, in the Bikita West Assembly constituency, Beauty Chabaya of Zanu-PF party has, with effect from the 22nd of January, 2017, been duly elected as a member of the National Assembly for Bikita West constituency, said Mrs Chigwamba.Cde Chabaya has since been sworn in as a Member of Parliament. The seat fell vacant following the conviction of former Zanu-PF lawmaker Munyaradzi Kereke, who is serving a 10-year jail term for raping a minor.Cde Chabaya, who defied all odds during party primaries and outwitted heavy weights like Cde Elias Musakwa, recently said she was an experienced politician who participated in Zanu-PF activities from a tender age. You know what, I am a seasoned politician, even Minister (Shuvai) Mahofa can be my witness, she said. I started participating in politics when I was a toddler. Before I even knew how to eat sadza I was already in politics. I urge those in opposition parties to come home to Zanu-PF. We have witnessed people from ZimPF coming back to Zanu-PF. Cde Chabaya s win in Bikita West contributed in throwing ZimPF, led by former Vice President Joice Mujuru, into disarray, with expulsions and counter expulsions following the by-election.The first casualty was Retired Colonel Cludious Makova, who resigned in shame after he defied advice from his colleagues when he pushed for Gopo as the party s candidate.With the combination of other factors, the by-election loss led to Mujuru dismissing seven of her closest allies and former colleagues in Zanu-PF from the party.The seven convened their own meeting and announced that they had in turn, expelled Mujuru from being the interim leader of ZimPF.