Biggie ChinoperekweiArts Correspondent Organisers of the upcoming dance award have commended promotions company Devine Assignments for working towards the development of the genre in the country. Dancers Association of Zimbabwe will hold its annual awards at City Sports Bar on February 22 when a number of club dancers will be honoured. DAZ president Hapers Mapimhidze said they owe their success to Devine Assignments, which has sponsored most events involving the dancers and spearheaded various programmes under the dance association. We can say Devine Assignments is our parent company. They have been supporting us over the years and they have been instrumental in these awards, said Mapimhidze. Our first office as DAZ was housed at Devine Assignments premises. We had a number of programmes under them and they have sponsored the awards in many ways. They give us their venue for free and they also give us the certificates and rewards that our winners get. The company has hosted most dance competitions that have been done in our sector in addition to shows that are held at their various venues featuring dance groups. Mapimhidze said most dancers that were nominated are looking forward to the ceremony.Devine Assignments director Biggie Chinoperekwei said their promotions company considers various facets of the arts industry and they realised that many youngsters are earning a living from dance. There are young men and women that are making a living from dancing on stage. We used to prioritise music promotion, but we discovered that dancers also contribute greatly to the arts industry. The dance groups have also been grooming grounds for dancers that go on to join popular musicians bands, said Chinoperekwei. Some of the dancers have expanded their art to become recording musicians and we are happy to see the industry growing. That is our role as promoters. Besides doing big shows and festivals, Devine Assignments also looks at some areas that are generally neglected in the industry and that is why we also have our weekly Jam Session that promote musicians that are left out of big shows. We are happy to be associated with the coming dancers awards and we hope the recognition will inspire the dancers to keep working hard. Mapimhidze said there would be bigger rewards for winning dancers this year. Below is the list of nominees:Best Female Rhumba Dancer Petronella Dhlamini (Expandables) Fred Nhamo (Sexy Angels) Girlie Mahlangu (Royal Queen)Best Male Rhumba Dancer Terence Gomo (Expandables) Innocent Mili (Expandables) Tendai Mukwindidza (Sexy Angels)Best female Sungura dancer Monica Mukombe (Manjenjenje) Juliet Konzani (Sexy Angels) Precious Makwame (Syndicate)Best Male Sungura Dancer Paul Madhara (Generations) Nicholas Wiless (Syndicate) Malik Isa (Sexy Angels)Best Arts Performer Male David Machowa (APAMA) Fungai Daura (Fearless) Calton Matope (Fearless)Best Arts Performer Female Jestina Chimbizi (Unique) Blessing Mariyano (Fearless) Calton Matope (Fearless)Best Female Dancer (Overall) Precious Makwame (Syndicate) Zoey Sifelani (Red Angels) Beverly Sibanda (Sexy Angels)Best Male Dancer (Overall) Terrance Gomo (Expandables) Fungai Daura (Fearless) Loveman Katsande (Pramastove)Manager of the Year Jestina Chimbizi (Unique) Terrance Gomo (Expandables) Chinyaradzo Dube (Digital)Most Promising Dancer, Female Patience Mateyu (Fearless) Melody Maponga (Unique) Portia Dube (Fireworks)Most Promising Dancer, Male Tapiwa Sibanda (Manjenje) Junior Kamudyairiwa (Syndicate)Most Improved Dancer, Female Drina Mudanga (Expandables) Melody Madonga (Unique) Yeukai Kambwanga (Millenium)Most Improved Dancer, Male Fednand Chikanga (Fearless) Prince ChikurusaBest Kwaito Dancer Memory Maphosa (Digital) Girlie Mahlangu (Digital)Best Dressed Dance Group Sexy Angels Unique FearlessMost Disciplined Dance Group Starlight Fireworks ManjenjeMost Innovative and Creative APAMA Fearless ExpendablesMost Improved Dance Group Manjenje Fireworks MalaikaBest Rhumba Dance Group Starlight Expandables UniquesBest Sungura Dance Group Generation Manjenje SyndicateBest Performer in Acts Crazyboys Fearless APAMABest Dance Group APAMA Sexy Angels FearlessMost Versatile Group APAMA Sexy Angels FearlessMost Consistent Group Unique Sexy Angels Fearless